4 MY BABA AND I
There is nothing in Western tradition to prepare a person for his 
first meeting with Baba: He comes to the room of our small foreign 
group, sits on the floor with us, and invites us to express our 
spiritual doubts. We see before us what appears to be a man of 
brown skin, slight in build, with a mass of darkest brown hair with 
golden highlights framing his face. We are naturally as observant as 
possible when we meet this extraordinary being of whom we have 
heard such strange stories. All senses are alert. Our minds and our 
intelligences tend to be wide awake. We note that he has sensitive 
features which quickly reflect changes in mood and in thought. He 
has a sweet and loving smile — like that of an innocent and affec-
tionate child. His eyes are dark brown, soft and melting, and sparkle 
with intelligence and humor. His voice is sweet and tender like that 
of a mother; sometimes gay with laughter and wit like that of a 
friend and companion, and at other times stern and serious like the 
voice of a father. The movement of his body as he sits, arises, and 
walks about is graceful and flowing and extremely light. His hands 
are wonderfully expressive.
There is a faint perfume in the air, which my wife says is jasmine. 
Yet Baba does not wear perfume — this I know from close 
members of his staff who sleep in the same room. Yet, wherever he 
is, there is perfume in the air.
One would need to be very negative to be other than captivated and 
delighted by the first impression of Baba. But, as we sit close to him, 
we quickly realize that here is far, far more than an elegant and 
charming Indian man. Our perception deepens, beyond the senses, 
and we become aware of a subtle yet total beauty that has quietly 
filled the room. Our critical, questioning mind stops its restless 
activity, and we experience an upflow of happiness. All care drops 
away. Remembrance of the world and its problems falls away from 
consciousness. Only our happy blissful state in the present is real. 
Although Baba is talking, one is surrounded by quietness. In that 
peaceful state of being, one's awareness deepens without effort. And 
now, like a faint breeze, there is a movement in the heart, a 
perception that some aliveness, something unknown is in the heart. 
In a moment, the realization comes that a current of love is moving 
in my dry heart, and then it was clear that the source of the current of 
love was Baba — nay, more, that the sweetness of Baba himself was 
there, with life, in my heart.