HAPPENINGS 7
Mother and Father lost sleep, for regardless of what job I had, I 
would leave it and go. The final conclusion: that I myself must 
find the truth within myself was, to be sure, a concept totally 
unknown and far distant when I started my inquiry.
The first sign-post came to my notice in Tahiti, where as a young 
lad of 18, I had gone for a year of adventure. A man I met there, 
the Reverend Arthur deVere Anderson, told me about The-
osophy, and as soon as I returned home I joined the Society in 
Los Angeles. At the time, I had the feeling that the only thing of 
value to be done in this world was service to humanity. I said this 
to the Society President. Very soon he told me that the way I 
could start such a career had opened. I could go to Ojai, 
California and help Fritz Kuntz, who had just come from India as 
Field Secretary of the Order of the Star in the East. This was an 
organization formed by Dr. Annie Besant in order to launch the 
career of J. Krishna-murti as "World Teacher." Work assigned to 
me in the Ojai Valley included operating the pump installation 
which took water from the river and pumped it up to the orange 
groves and houses which comprised the estate, Arya Vihara, the 
Ojai home of Dr. Besant and J. Krishnamurti. After a few months, 
they told me I could stay at Arya Vihara, and I was there 
whenever they were there for the two years, 1925 and 1926. Dr. 
Besant said I should stay and manage the ranches and farmlands, 
but I decided I had better finish school and I went back to college. 
For years thereafter, I would leave school or job to go to J. 
Krishnamurti Camps in the U.S. and Europe. I met my wife, 
Victoria, at such a meeting. At that time, Krishnamurti and Dr. 
Besant were giant figures who filled the horizon, and it seemed to 
me that they and they only had found the truth of life. I feel 
eternally grateful to Dr. Besant and to Krishnaji for their great 
kindness and great patience with an undisciplined young man. But 
wisdom was not born in me as a follower of Krishnamurti.
The next sign-post, to my mind, was Yoga, and my wife and I looked 
to yoga for an insight to truth. We met Swami Yogananda and would 
drive into Hollywood each week to listen to him and talk with him. 
We took lessons whenever we could find teachers of good reputation, 
like Swami Vishnudevananda and Iyengar (in Europe), and Dr. 
Roman Ostoya, the "Russian White Yogi," who once was buried 
under the baseball field at Inglewood, California