8 MY BABA AND I
for two weeks, emerging unharmed by virtue of yogic power. But
in yoga, we did not find our way.
All this time we were, to be sure, exploring the literature which had
emerged from spiritual disciplines the world over, but we knew that
writings, no matter how noble their source and their subject matter,
could not be the finality — direct knowing from the depth of
experience was necessary.
The next opening in experience for us was the coming to America
of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. We met him at his first talk in a room
at the Friar's Club in Hollywood. He had just arrived from Hawaii,
which was his first stop after departing from India and Burma. My
wife and I liked him at once. We found him to be sincere, with
strong personal force, and with a great background as the favorite
disciple of Sri Swami Brahmananda Saraswati, Shankaracharya of
Jotirmayapithan in the Himalayas. Swami Brahmananda Saraswati
was a Siddha (i.e. having yogic powers) and a master of Sri Vidya
discipline. He was famous for his combining of the Bhakti and
Advaita systems. Mahesh Yogi was an adept at a form of
meditation designed to carry the consciousness of an individual to
the source of thought, which would be the universal source of
manifestation, the Undifferentiated Divine. His vision was that
since it was demonstrably true that the peace of a person in deep
meditation would spread its influence to persons close to the
meditator, then if millions of people around the world would
engage in deep meditation, this could lead to the birth of true world
peace. This idea appealed to me greatly, and I became the first
president of the Mahesh Yogi American organization, and the first
person in America, other than Maharishi himself, to initiate others
into the secrets of this meditation. It was obvious, of course, that
meditation teachers would have to be working worldwide if
people were to be meditating world-wide, and Mahesh Yogi,
therefore, drew up a plan for an Academy for meditation teachers
to be established high up in the Himalayan Mountains, close to
Tibet, in a valley called Uttar Kashi, the Valley of the Saints. I told
him that I would get the land and build the Academy. By that year,
1958, I had my doctorate from UCLA, had resigned from an
academic career after ten years as a college teacher, and was in
business. I was the Vice-President of a large corporation and was
earning an astounding amount of money, yet the old tend-