HAPPENINGS 9
ency to leave all was as strong as ever, and I left the job and went to 
India.
In Uttar Kashi, an ideal site for the Academy was found by virtue 
of a peculiar circumstance. On the way up to the high Valley of 
Saints, a police officer was sitting next to me, and I asked him why 
he was going to Uttar Kashi. He replied, it was to investigate a man 
named Hislop who was suspected of being a CIA agent. I 
convinced him that I was not an agent, and to celebrate he sug-
gested that we have tea at a small mountain village stopping point. 
I knew better, but was afraid to refuse, and the anticipated disaster 
from dirty food soon arrived. By the time we reached Uttar Kashi, I 
was deathly sick and was unable to leave the small ashram where 
Maharishi had arranged for me to stay. Yet, time could not be 
wasted, and on the third day, I engaged a guide and forced myself 
to climb a nearby mountain and start looking for an Academy site. 
After a while, we came to an abandoned farming terrace, and I was 
so sick I could not force myself to another step, so I slumped down 
and lay flat on the ground. I had not been there for more than a 
moment or so when something very strange came about. A subtle 
current of strength came into me, seemingly up from the ground 
into me, and after about five minutes I was able to jump up, not 
just improved, but fully well and as strong as though I had never 
been sick. I thought, "This terrace must be a sacred place; the land 
for the Academy is found!" I wired Maharishi, who was in Europe 
at that time — and my wife was also there. She, Maharishi, another 
lady, and a devotee who owned a Rolls Royce car had just finished 
touring Germany in the Rolls, helping Maharishi while he gave a 
series of lectures on his meditation, initiated new meditators, and 
described his vision of world peace. I had the Uttar Kashi land 
surveyed and went to Lucknow to see the Prime Minister and ask 
him to release the land, for it was under the control of the State 
Government. The Prime Minister informed me that he would gladly 
do so, for he himself planned to retire to Uttar Kashi to finish out 
his life as a yogi. He said to return in a month and all would be 
ready. To wait out the month, I went to Burma and entered the 
Buddhist Pagoda of Thray Sithu U Ba Khin, about which 
Maharishi had told me, in order to learn and practice Vipas-sana 
Meditation — in which there was a deep experience and to which I 
would later return.