10 MY BABA AND I
At month's end, I again visited the Prime Minister of Uttar 
Pradesh, only to hear of a disaster. The Communist Party in the 
Government had accused the Prime Minister of planning to aid 
Hislop, a CIA agent who was masquerading as a student of yoga, 
and place Hislop in a sensitive listening-post close to the Tibetan 
border. The communists were almost successful in unseating the 
Government, and the Prime Minister was unable to release the 
land. I was puzzled about the CIA label which was attached to me 
as soon as I arrived at Rishikesh and arranged for transportation to 
Uttar Kashi. Now, after the event, I realize it must have come from 
the President of India. When I arrived at New Delhi, I had phoned 
the President and arranged for an interview to tell him about 
Maharishi's plans for the world and especially for an Academy in 
the Himalayas. The interview was most sympathetic, but in his 
mind, the President must have had a doubt and must have given an 
order that I should be investigated.
I then went to London and informed Maharishi of the turn of events. 
He said he would go to India at once and have a try at getting the 
land in Uttar Kashi. He did not succeed, but the Government, to 
please him, gave him the present Academy site, across the Ganges 
River from Sivananda's ashram at Rishikesh, where the Ganges 
emerges from the Himalayas to begin its long course across the 
plains of India to the Sea.
On trips back and forth to Uttar Kashi, I would stay for a day or so 
with Swami Sivananda at his Rishikesh ashram. Sivananda was a 
famous yogi, known around the world. The present-day yoga 
master of Canada and the Bahamas, Swami Vishnudevananda, was 
Sivananda's pupil. Swami Sivananda was a yogi with Siddhi 
powers. One practice of his was to tap with his fingers on every 
letter sent from the ashram. Upon receiving the letter, even in 
America, one's fingers would burn like fire, thus reminding one 
there was something beyond the usual in a relationship with 
Sivananda. I found that if the letter were placed on the ground and 
covered with sand for a moment — whatever caused the burning 
sensation would disappear.
Upon my return to Los Angeles, friends and myself continued to 
build the Mahesh Yogi organization. Charles Lutes, the current 
American President, was active in this work. For our first National 
Convention, we took over the principal hotel on Catalina Island,