HAPPENINGS 11
off the California coast. An event which occurred there, ter-
minated my relationship with the Mahesh Yogi organization. I was 
myself doing quite well with the meditation (which is now named 
Transcendental Meditation), but I was telling those persons whom I 
initiated that the meditation would lead to the goal of life, Liber-
ation, Self-Realization, Union with the Divine. The two weeks at 
the hotel would be free from responsibilities for me, since 
Maharishi and Charley Lutes could run the convention. I decided to 
stay in my room, do nothing but continuous meditation from 3 a.m. 
until I fell asleep at night, and see if I would be able to know 
directly that which I was telling the people whom I was initiating 
into the meditation. After several days of the 3 a.m.-to-bedtime 
meditation, waves of bliss started to sweep through me. They were 
so intense, I could hardly bear them. But, at the same time a deva-
stating realization struck me — "This sensation was being experi-
enced in the nervous system of the body — it was not the Divine 
Bliss which the ancients have described as 'that peace which 
passeth all understanding.' At this moment, I realized that in my 
work, I was a perfect example of "a blind leader," and especially so 
when I initiated people into meditation. I went at once to Maha-
rishi's room, resigned, and returned to the mainland.
The next move of my wife and myself was to return to Burma to 
further explore the Buddhist Vipassana meditation. The Vipas-sana 
meditation was an experience which my critical mind could not 
deny. Since the reader may be interested, and since I was strongly 
influenced by the Buddhist way, I will briefly describe the 
discipline. It is said to be the very discipline which the Buddha ap-
plied to himself under the Bodhi Tree when he gained Release, and 
it was being taught now only by Thray Sithu U Ba Khin, who had 
himself learned it from a meditation master deep in the jungles of 
Burma. Of the many ways to approach the "destruction of the 
mind," this version of Vipassana meditation was said to be the 
most difficult, yet the most efficient. When the renowned Burmese 
"liberated while yet alive" monk, Way Bu Sayadaw, reached an 
obstacle in his meditation which he was unable to surmount, he 
came to U Ba Khin for instruction in the traditional way of the 
Buddha and, with this, he overcame remaining obstacles and 
gained Release. U Ba Khin himself had taken the vow to become a 
Buddha in distant, distant time and was thus deliberately holding