12 MY BABA AND I
back from the path of full Self-Realization. All this we heard from 
U Ba Khin at various times over a period of years. I had an oppor-
tunity to meet and speak with Way Bu Sayadaw and was deeply 
impressed with him. Vipassana meditation, which aims directly at 
Release, is in the tradition of Theravada, or Southern Buddhism.
The meditation of Mahayana, or Northern Buddhism was different 
from the Theravada approach. I first learned of this from the Dalai 
Lama when I visited him at his home in Upper Dharma-sala, and 
from Trungpa Rimpoche when he was in Scotland. He is quite 
famous now. At that time, friends in England had just bought a 
large house and estate in Scotland for Trungpa Rim-poche as his "
Tibetan Monastery" in Europe. He was, according to Tibetan 
history, the sixteenth-time-reborn Abbot of a group of six Tibetan 
monasteries, had escaped the Chinese invasion, and was found by 
an English woman who took him to England and enrolled him in 
Oxford University. When I asked him about his many rebirths, he 
told me of the most recent. When he died, the senior monks went to 
visit the head monk of their tradition — there are several monkish 
traditions in Tibet — and said their Abbot had died. The head of the 
Order then went into deep meditation and told what he saw. He saw 
the reborn baby, its parents, and their village, their neighbors, and 
the dog of the house. But its geography, the place of the village on 
a map was not seen. Word of this was then sent throughout Tibet. 
At length, replies came that the description was recognized, and the 
location of the village was given. Next came the visit. The visiting 
party included some monks closely related to the dead Abbot and 
some monks who were strangers. The party carried a number of 
artifacts, some of which had belonged to the dead Abbot and some 
of which had not. The visiting monks seated themselves in front of 
the baby and spread out the array of artifacts. The test was that the 
baby must point at once to the monks he had known before death 
and to the artifacts which had belonged to him. This test was 
immediately and successfully passed by the baby. The monks than 
asked the parents if they would give their Abbot to them to be 
educated and trained for his high office. I asked Rimpoche if, as he 
was growing up, he remembered the past. He replied that he did 
often remember, but his tutors would tell him that it was just a 
dream and he should forget it and pay attention to his lessons. We 
stayed with Rimpoche in his