HAPPENINGS 13
house in Scotland for a month, taught him to drive a car, became 
well-acquainted with him, and met him again some years later in 
California.
Thus, when I first went to U Ba Khin, I had some idea of the 
Buddhist way, but had no prior knowledge of what I would experi-
ence in Vispassana meditation. In fact, an important aspect of the 
meditation is that one should have no prior knowledge; for the 
experience should not be imagined by the mind, which is very 
powerful and will project its concepts. The experience should be 
unanticipated, new, and totally surprising. In this way, the Medita-
tion Master could judge if the pupil was making genuine progress.
There were a series of meditation caves — for darkness and 
perfect silence — beneath the Pagoda. Each pupil would be alone 
in a cave. Work started at 5 a.m. and continued until 9 p.m., with a 
one-hour break for lunch. The first task was to concentrate the 
attention at the juncture of the nose and the upper lip and become 
aware of the breath as it entered the nostrils with the in-breath and 
as it left the nostrils with the out-breath. When the mind wandered 
away, it was just to be noted that it had wandered away and then 
calmly brought back to attention. My wife's progress was faster 
than mine, and it took me a week before the mind settled quietly at 
the juncture of nose and lip without wandering away. After a few 
days' work, the mind becomes aware of a spot at the juncture of 
nose and lip that is either very hot or very cold. Faster progress is 
then made because the mind can hold to this sensation.
When he saw that my mind was quiet, U Ba Khin called me into 
the Pagoda under the central dome and spire. It was said that herein 
one was sheltered from the subtle influence of outside tensions 
and forces. He told me to concentrate my mind as per my practice. 
Then he said, "Move your mind to the top of your head." At once I 
felt like ants were crawling there, and involuntarily raised my hand 
to feel the area. U Ba Khin then said, "No, don't do that, we will 
start again." Then he told me to move my attention down my face. 
With this, the sensation, which was now one of burning, followed 
my mind. Then I was told to return to the cave and work with the 
sensation until I could place it in every part of my body. This 
sensation is named "Anicca" (pronounced, Annay-sa), and is said 
to be the direct perception of the arising and the disintegration of 
the most subtle particles which form the physical