14 MY BABA AND I
mass of the body. It is the direct perception that the body is tem-
porary and therefore not one's reality. The disintegration of each 
particle is atomic, and therefore, the sensation of burning heat. 
Some pupils, whose bodies are lodged with impurities, cannot bear 
the agony of the burning and must stop and leave. After a number 
of days of this, all impurities are burned away and the Annica can 
be freely moved throughout the body. The ability to sweep Anicca 
throughout the body still remains with me.
When the Meditation Master sees this, he takes the next step. He 
told me to concentrate on the chest area. After two or three days of 
this, Annica, which at first was felt throughout the chest area, 
narrowed down until there was no sensation in the entire body 
except for one small spot at the center of the chest and which 
seemed to be no larger than the head of a pin. When the Meditation 
Master saw this, I was again called into the Pagoda. I was told to 
concentrate again until I felt only the pin-point of Annica. U Ba 
Khin told me then, "I will say, 'Give me your mind." No sooner 
were the words out, then an ice-cold breeze entered into me at the 
back of the neck, and in surprise, I raised my hand there. U Ba Khin 
said, "No, don't do that. We will try it again." This time the cold 
breeze entered me from all around my neck (at least that was how it 
felt it was happening). I felt cool and delightful and as light as a 
feather as the cool, delightful sensation spread throughout the body. 
I was then told to return to the cave and practice this until it was 
under my command.
But away from the cave I could never do it except once — after 
stopping off in Rome, I went into an ancient Catholic Church, 
concentrated my mind and was again filled with that cool, delicious 
lightness. My wife, however, is much better than I and can do this "
drop into the transcendental state" as it is called.
I thought, then, that this work with the Buddhist way was surely the 
path to Liberation, to Truth-Realization, to the goal of life. And my 
wife felt the same.
But then, after working in the Pagoda for two or three months each 
year over a period of six years, we heard of Sri Sathya Sai Baba. I 
was fascinated and had to see for myself, and my wife, who could 
not bear the climate of India, agreed to go because of her foot. In 
Switzerland, the previous year, at a J. Krishnamurti Camp, she had 
fallen and broken her foot. When we returned to