HAPPENINGS 15
California and the cast was removed, the foot had set in a badly 
twisted way and the doctor told her she would be like that for the 
rest of her life and would always use a cane. When it was said to us 
that Sri Sathya Sai Baba could change a person's life and it would 
never change back again, she thought to herself, "Perhaps my foot, 
then, can also be changed!" And, sure enough, Baba looked at it, 
not even touching it and told her the foot would be all right. And so 
it was. Gradually it changed by itself and, in some months time, was 
as good as new and has been like new ever since.
The Buddhist way was a way of the intellect and the mind. And 
despite my great appreciation and gratitude for having found the 
discipline, I felt that my heart was dry; that I had a dry Western 
heart with little love left in it. We had begun to realize, also, that 
the Vipassana discipline could be dangerous for a life in the world 
and that to pursue it properly one should become a monk as in the 
time of the Buddha. But this was not possible, for Burma had 
closed its borders to any long stay for foreigners. These 
considerations were hazy and not in our thoughts to any serious 
extent, but perhaps they were there to keep our minds open.
Upon meeting Baba, I knew at once, without doubt, that for me here 
was the true source of wisdom. The circumstances of our first 
meeting with Baba were fortunate. Now, people by the tens of 
thousands are always around. But in January, 1968, there were 
fewer than a dozen foreigners in the Prasanthi Nilayam Ashram, 
which is located next to the village of Puttaparthi, Baba's birth-
place. At that time, there were only a few rooms for visitors —
probably less than half a dozen. We were given two rooms — one 
for the ladies and one for the men. As soon as we were settled, Baba 
came to visit us, and returned to visit us each day, often twice a day, 
staying for an hour or so each time. My wife and I were scheduled 
to stay for ten days and then continue on to Burma. It is difficult, 
and probably impossible to express in words the effect upon myself 
of that first meeting with Baba. My entire being was profoundly 
affected and changed. Immediately, Baba became the center of my 
life and has remained so. In his presence, at that first meeting, the 
world fell away from me, my entire consciousness was drawn 
inward and, at a most subtle level of awareness, Baba appeared in 
my heart as love. Love was unmistakable and that