18 MY BABA AND I
incarnations, special Grace and the power to bestow it; each of 
these in the past, present, and future, thus totalling fifteen, with the 
sixteenth being Paramatma, the Divine, resident in the heart of each 
being. To these sixteen signs of the divine incarnation of the 
Avathar, Baba adds another sign, which he terms the most signifi-
cant of all — divine love, universal and impersonal, yet personal.
The lingam has been seen by the writer a number of times. On the 
occasion of one Mahasivarathi night, I was sitting quite close to 
Baba. When the moment came, I saw a flash of gold come from his 
mouth and saw the lingam caught in the silk handkerchief held by 
his hands. It was of gold. How an object that size came up Sri Baba'
s throat cannot be explained. At another Mahasivaratri, the lingam 
was translucent, and there was a clearly visible flame in the center 
of the lingam.
The evening before the Mahasivaratri Day of 1973, we were told to 
be ready in the early morning for a trip; and that when the cars were 
loaded and ready we would know the destination. Swami had 
decided that only a handful of people would be with him when the 
lingam became manifest.
Our destination was the Bandipur Game Sanctuary in Bandi-pur 
Forest, several hours away in Mysore State. We arrived at the 
Forest resthouse in the early afternoon. The next morning we 
returned to our cars, and, guided by the Forest people, took 
various winding roads hoping to come upon one of the Forest's 
wild elephant herds. As we moved through the trees and the open 
areas, in our minds we were hoping for a replay of the dramatic 
and fascinating encounter between Baba and a wild elephant herd 
which had taken place some years before when Swami and some 
devotees had made a holiday expedition to the Game Sanctuary. 
This time, however, the elephants remained in their secret places 
and not even one was seen. But the drive through the hills had 
another and more important objective. Swami intended to find a 
correct site where we could gather at dusk for the sacred event of 
the lingam birth. It was on this great and most mysterious occa-
sion, unknown and beyond imagination to the world at large, that 
the crucifix came into being.
As we crossed a bridge above a sandy, dry riverbed, Baba indicated 
that this would be the place. He said we would all return here just at 
dusk, and this we did. The cars halted at the side of