HAPPENINGS 19
the road, and we started to climb down the bank to the sandy river 
bottom. I was beside Baba. As we passed a bush, Swami broke off 
two twigs, placed them together and asked me, "What is this, 
Hislop?"
"Well, Swami, it is a cross," I answered. Baba then closed his 
fingers over the twigs and directed three somewhat slow breaths 
into his fist, between thumb and forefinger. Then he opened his 
hand to reveal a Christ figure crucified on a cross, and he gave it 
to me.
He said, "This shows Christ as he really was at the time he left his 
body, not as artists have imagined him or as historians have told 
about him. His stomach is pulled in and his ribs are all showing. He 
had no food for eight days."
I looked at the crucifix, but found no words. Then Baba continued, "
The cross is wood from the actual cross on which Christ was 
crucified. To find some of the wood after 2,000 years took a little 
time! The image is of Christ after he died. It is a dead face."
I noticed something odd and asked, "Swami, what is that hole at the 
top of the cross?" Baba replied that the cross had been originally 
hung from a standard.
We continued down to the river bed, and Baba seated us in a 
rectangle, with himself at the head. It could be seen that Swami's 
body was already in labor, and the group at once started singing 
bhajans (sacred songs of devotion and praise to Divinity). This 
continued without interruption until the lingam came out from 
Baba's throat and was caught by him in a silk handkerchief. After 
the lingam had been admired by everyone, Swami put it aside. He 
then raised a small heap of sand in front of his knees, and with his 
finger sketched an outline on it. Then in a moment or two, he dug 
his hand into the sand and brought forth a silver flask filled with 
amrith. Then he moved his hand and created a small silver cup. 
Everyone, from his hand, was then given a portion of the amrith, 
nectar of the Gods. How delicate and delicious was the taste! It is 
unique. There is no other taste to compare to it.
Within a few weeks we were back at our home in Mexico and 
were soon to witness an amazing series of events in relation to the 
crucifix. The cross is so small that the details on the figure of 
Christ escape the eye. A friend, Walter, came down to our home 
and took some color photographs of the crucifix. The over-all