20 MY BABA AND I
length of the Christ figure is only one inch, and Walter was to 
make some enlargements to bring out the detail. When he mailed 
us a sample of the prints, my wife and I were astounded. I wrote 
to him and said that if the pictures were seen around the world, 
they would create an art sensation. I am sure it is the greatest 
sculpture of Christ every made. In my estimation, it is the most 
extraordinary object Sri Sathya Sai has ever created for the joy of 
his devotees.
A few weeks later, Walter and his wife returned with color 
enlargements of the cross. These, along with the actual cross, were 
spread out on the dining room table, next to large french windows 
overlooking the sea. The time was about 5 p.m. The details re-
vealed by the photographic enlargements were so extraordinary that 
all persons present were concentrating on this amazing vision of 
Christ, and on the mystery and wonder of Sri Bhagavan. On this 
afternoon, the sky along the Mexican coast was clear and peaceful. 
But suddenly, without any warning, there was a loud crash of 
thunder and as our eyes turned to the windows, lightning flashed 
from a dark cloud where a moment before there had been only clear 
sky. A violent wind rushed through the house, causing windows and 
doors to open and shut with such force that glass was in danger of 
shattering. The curtains were flying in all directions. We were much 
startled by this turn of events, but my wife at once, said, "It is 5 p.
m., the time Christ died on the cross, and what is now happening is 
described in the Bible." She later brought a Bible and we looked 
until we found the pertinent paragraph, which said that at the 
moment Christ gave up His life, a violent storm arose with lightning 
and thunder, and winds rent the curtains of the temple. We 
concluded that we had witnessed a wonder totally beyond our 
power of imagination. Before our eyes had occurred nothing less 
than a recapitulation of events related to the crucifixion. The 
following day newspapers in San Diego carried a brief story com-
menting on the sudden and mysterious storm that had arisen without 
warning on the Mexican coast, near Ensenada. We and our friends 
concluded that this recapitulation of an event which had taken place 
some 2,000 years ago upon the crucifixion of Christ, implied a great 
power connected in some way with that small cross and Christ 
figure materialized by Baba. A year or so later I sent a description 
of the event to Dr. Eruch B. Fanibunda