HAPPENINGS 23
roots go deep and are out of sight. I was telling Hislop, 
in Bombay, at Dharmakshetra, the same thing. The 
bridge towards Sri Lanka was being built over the straits, 
so that Rama and his army could march across to the 
realm of the demon King, Ravana, where Sita was in-
terned. The valiant monkeys were plucking mountains 
and leaping vast distances in space with those peaks 
hoisted on their shoulders, so that they could be thrown 
into the sea to create a passage for Rama! The monkeys 
had formed a queue all the way from the Himalayas 
down to the southernmost point, where the bridge was 
fast coming up. When the causeway was completed, 
word went fast along the queue that no more hills were 
needed, and each monkey placed on the ground, wher-
ever it stood, the hill it had on its shoulder at the time.
One hill, however, did not sit quietly. It started bewailing 
its fate! 'Why was I removed from where I was and why 
am I now refused? Alas! I was elated that I was destined 
to serve a Divine Purpose; I was overjoyed that the armies 
of Rama, and Rama, himself, would walk over me. Now, 
I am neither there, nor where I was!' It shed profuse tears. 
News reached Rama, and his compassion was great. He 
sent word that in his next Avathara, when he would come 
again upon his mission in human form, he would certainly 
bless the sorrowing hill. This very hill was the 
Govardhana Peak which Rama (as the boy, Krishna) lifted 
on his finger and held aloft for a full seven days, in order 
to save the cowherds of Gokul from the deluge of rain 
that Indra dared inflict on them!
I related this story to Hislop when he asked me whether 
inanimate things, too, had emotions and feelings of 
disappointment 
and 
despair. 
The 
occasion 
at 
Dharmakshetra was: I asked that about a hundred saris 
be brought, so that I could select some for distribution to 
the women workers at Anantapur who are helping build 
the Sathya Sai College there. I selected 96 and asked 
them to return 4 to the shop. I kept the 4 aside and the 96 
were placed in my room. Later, when I passed the table 
on which the four discarded saris were kept,