26 MY BABA AND I
of color; there were specks and dots of color that reflected brightly 
in the sunlight. The total effect of the disk was one of great beauty.
Everyone gazed at the object with intense interest and wonderment. 
Holding the disk to the sun, Baba said that it was the moon in 
miniature, comprised of the moon's matter; that it was a "mirror of 
the moon." Nobody understood what he meant, and we started to 
ask questions. At length, we understood that the two-sided disk was 
an accurate miniature in stone and minerals of the two sides of the 
moon.
It was as if one were to photograph the moon as it is seen from 
Earth, and then to journey to the opposite side of the moon and 
photograph that side. Each side photographed would appear on a 
photographic plate as a circular disk. Thus, one side of the 
translucent disk created by Baba mirrored one side of the moon, 
and the other side of the translucent disk mirrored the opposite side 
of the moon. The darker, unevenly shaped areas on the disk were 
the very large features of the moon's surface; the brightly reflecting 
specks and dots were individual mountains and smaller mountain 
ranges; the shorter and longer veins of brilliant varicolored 
minerals were additional features of the moon's landscape.
Indeed, the visual modifications to be seen in the disk were so 
complex that we did not readily understand them. Baba said that the 
mineralized appearance of the luminous features of the disk were in 
fact moon minerals, that they could be seen in the disk because it 
was thin and therefore translucent, and that the same mineralization 
was in the moon itself. The miniature moon was exact and fully 
accurate, and were there to be a photographic enlargement, 
scientists would at once recognize all the landscape features with 
which they were familiar.
Baba told us that he would not give the miniature moon to anyone, 
and that the disk would be returned from where it had come. He did 
not describe that source and nobody asked him.
At this point, food taken from the cars was ready, and a delicious 
breakfast was served by the ladies of the party. I had the moon-disk 
in my hand, so I put it in the pocket of my jacket and kept it there. 
After breakfast, with a smile, Baba held out his hand, and I reached 
in my pocket and returned the moon-disk to him. He again held the 
disk up to the sun, and all along the edge of the disk there was a rich 
golden light. Baba said, "See, there is the sunrise!"