HAPPENINGS 29
Walter to the bed, and he passed away in Elsie's arms a few
minutes later. An ambulance was called, the body was taken to a
hospital, pronounced dead upon arrival, placed in an empty
storage room, and covered with a sheet to await daylight and deci-
sions about the funeral.
Elsie and Mrs. Ratanlal had already been to see Baba when we
arrived. He had told them he would visit the hospital at 10 a.m.
The two ladies were ready and waiting to join Baba at the ap-
pointed hour. They did go to the hospital, but Baba had arrived
earlier and had already departed. To the joy of the ladies, but also
to their their total amazement, they found Walter alive and being
attended to. Nobody saw Baba with Walter, nor has Baba chosen
to say how or why Walter was resurrected, but on returning to the
devotee family who were his hosts, Baba told the people there that
he had brought Walter back to life.
Walter's own story throws some light on what happened, and later on,
I was a party to a fascinating episode; for Walter's life continued to
be in danger and, in fact, Baba told me that Walter died three times
and had to be returned to life three times.
Walter described his experience. He said he realized that he had
died and that he had remained with the body in the ambulance,
looking at it with interest. Then Baba came and together they went
to a place, which seemed to be at a great height. There they
entered a conference room where people were seated around a
table. There was a presiding chairman who had a kind face and
who spoke in a kindly way. He called for Walter's records and
these were read aloud. The records were in different languages and
Walter did not understand what was said until after some time
when Baba started to translate. Walter was surprised to hear that
he had occupied a lofty status in various times and cultures and
had always been dedicated to the welfare of the people. At length,
Baba addressed the person presiding and asked that Walter be
given over to Baba's care, for Baba had work for Walter to do.
Then, when Baba and he departed the room, Walter felt himself
descending towards a place where his body was, but felt great
reluctance. In terms of direct experience, he had realized that he
was not the body, and he had no wish to be subject again to bodily
anxieties and miseries.
After hearing Walter, I asked Baba if Walter were just imagin-