30 MY BABA AND I
ing the incidents. Baba replied that it was not imagination. The 
events were real. They had occurred in Walter's mind and Baba 
himself had guided the thoughts. I then asked if everyone had a 
similar experience at death. Baba answered that some people had 
similar experiences and some did not. Several years later I brought 
up the question again. Baba answered that the corpse was common 
to all, but beyond that there was no common experience.
The day after Walter returned to life was one of high interest for 
me. Sri Appa and I accompanied Baba to the home of a devotee. 
From there we went to a meeting of lady members of the Nigara Sai 
Samiti where Baba was to give awards and speak. Sri Ap-pa and I 
were sitting on the platform, just a few feet from Baba, and were 
able to observe him closely. He made the awards and gave a 
spiritual discourse, all without any break or any moment of hesita-
tion. From that meeting, we were to go to the home of a devotee for 
lunch. As soon as we got in the car, Baba turned to us and said, "
While I was talking in the meeting, Mrs. Cowan called me. I at once 
went to the hospital and did what was necessary. Mr. Cowan's 
health had taken a bad turn for the worse."
So, even while busy on the speaker's platform, Baba had gone to the 
hospital, and had done what was necessary. But, to the eyes of Sri 
Appa and myself, Baba had continued in action and speech on the 
platform for the whole time without any break or hesitation 
whatsoever. How does one explain this mystery?
When we arrived at the devotee's house for lunch, Baba turned to us 
and said, "You will not be able to join me for lunch. Take this 
vibhuti to the hospital, give Mr. Cowan some in his mouth and rub 
the rest on his forehead and chest. If you will walk to the corner 
there, you will find Mrs. Hislop in a taxi. She will take you to the 
hospital."
Now the fact was, that my wife had been following in a car. 
However, she had taken great pains to stay out of sight, but her 
effort was to no avail for, as usual, Baba knew everything. When 
we reached the hospital with the vibhuti, Mrs. Cowan said, "Walter 
took a very bad turn just a little while ago. I thought he was dead, 
and I was terrified. I at once called Baba in a loud voice. Now, 
Walter seems a little improved. When I called Baba I felt his 
presence at once." At the hospital, Elsie experienced exactly what 
Baba had told Sri Appa and myself in the car.