HAPPENINGS 35
culates. That is enough. Then the game starts. Every hour, from 3 a.
m. onward, will have its group of supporters and so at every hour 
people are ready and waiting.
On this particular day, it was 9 a.m. before Baba departed. Soon a 
signal was received that he was ready. He came from the Mandir, 
paused briefly to survey the assembled devotees, and the trip to 
Brindavan started.
Baba is cautious in driving, often instructing the driver, but 
nevertheless traveling at high speed on open stretches of the road. 
This puts considerable stress on the drivers of the cars following 
him. But Baba himself is relaxed and totally at ease, smiling 
sweetly and talking in a most kindly voice. Victoria had wanted 
an opportunity to ask Baba about an incident in her childhood and, 
securing his permission, she told this story.
It was at the family home in Havana, Cuba. There was a large 
walled garden, as is typical of Spanish houses, with interior doors 
opening to it. Victoria was about a year old; her mother was teach-
ing her to walk. She toddled into the garden from the room where 
the family was gathered, and then stopped. For, there in the corner 
of the garden, a man was standing against the wall. She said, "
Dada" (Daddy) and took a few steps forward, but then turned 
towards the room behind her, much puzzled, for she had just left 
her father in the room. Turning back to the garden, she saw that the 
man was still there.
At this point in the story, Baba interrupted and said, "Yes, yes, I 
was there. I was standing against the wall like this." Swamiji then 
stretched out his legs, crossing one over the other. Then he 
continued, "I had a cloth around my head like this." He illustrated 
by moving his hand around his head, "And I had a cloth around my 
waist." And, indeed, that was what Victoria had seen. She had never 
told anyone, nor even thought about it again, but the incident was 
engraved in her memory, and it came to life in a most unexpected 
way many years later in the house of a friend in the Ojai Valley. 
The friend was much interested in India, having at one time been 
the secretary of Paul Brunton, the famed author of several books 
about esoteric India. Victoria's attention was caught by a picture in 
a book. Pointing to it, she exclaimed, "Who is that man? I know 
him." The friend replied, "That is Sai Baba of Shirdi." In this way, 
Victoria learned that as a very young child, she