38 MY BABA AND I
ticular meal, Baba was sitting at his individual table as usual and the 
rest of us were sitting in a row on the floor. As the first bite of the 
food was on its way to my mouth, I suddenly recollected my duty. 
Putting aside the food for a moment, I silently dedicated it to the 
Lord, and then I thought, "Thank God! Finally I remembered!" I 
then opened my eyes and Baba was looking directly at me and 
laughing. With Baba, one might as well shout as think. He hears or 
knows thoughts just as clearly as I hear the spoken words of a 
person sitting next to me; or, better said — he knows everything 
since he transcends both time and space.
When after lunch Baba went to a room on the men's side, I noticed 
and followed him, as did the other men. Baba took an easy chair 
against the inner wall of the room, the rest of us sat in front of him, 
and a conversation started. At the first opportunity, I began with 
my deplorable custom of questioning Baba. Because I see him as 
no other than the direct personification of Divinity, I am intensely 
one-pointed towards him and especially so when speaking with 
him. Questions and answers were traded back and forth between us 
for a while, and my attention was riveted on Baba. I soon noticed 
something which to me was extraordinary in the extreme. A golden 
light encircled his head. It was not like the halo seen in artist's 
drawings. The strong golden light — as if one were looking at a 
sheet of pure gold that was illuminated in some fashion or other — 
came from his scalp, up through the hair, and extended about 12 
inches from his head. The edge of the light was not even, but was 
somewhat irregular. When he moved his head, the halo of gold 
moved with the head, and this natural movement revealed a second 
extraordinary situation. Against the wall, behind Baba's head, there 
was a round disk of gold, whose diameter appeared to be somewhat 
smaller than the halo. This circle of gold was quite even around its 
edges, but the truly amazing feature was that it remained stationary 
— when Baba moved his head, this second and perfectly round 
disk of gold remained on the wall without in any way moving. 
Needless to say, my gaze was absolutely glued to Swamiji. During 
this time I continued my questions and he answered.
After I had asked Baba a final question, there was a brief silence. 
Then one of the men said, "Hislop, why are you staring like that at 
Swami?"