HAPPENINGS 41
My wife, Victoria, was afraid and much worried. Yet, at the same 
time, she could not believe that Baba would allow "his" house to 
be destroyed before he had even paid a visit to it! These were the 
two currents of feeling and thought opposing each other in her 
consciousness. She tried to organize a group meeting of the people 
living on Loma De Carmen so that we could all join together and 
make a prayer to Baba to save our homes. But the different 
families had their own ideas about Divinity, and this plan of 
Victoria's did not meet with success.
Right in the midst of this difficult time, when any day might be the 
day our house might tumble down the hill to the sea, I was 
scheduled to tour the Sathya Sai Baba Centers in the Mid-West, 
the deep South, and the East Coast. It seemed heartless to leave 
Victoria alone to face the trouble, but we were both of the same 
mind — that Baba's work comes first, so off I went. It was to be a 
three-week trip, and I could not be in touch by phone, for the 
Mexican Government had not (and still has not) extended phone 
service to San Miguel.
Travel, Sai meetings, and conversations with Sai devotees kept me 
busy day and night, yet although I had a strong trust in Sri Sathya 
Sai Baba, I could not help but worry as to how Victoria was getting 
along with the danger and the situation. So it was with a keen and 
somewhat anxious anticipation that I approached San Miguel upon 
driving home from San Diego when my tour was completed. As my 
car came over a rise in the highway, before it dips down to the 
beach and San Miguel, my eyes were watching for the top of the hill 
to come into view, for our house could then be seen — if it were 
still there! Yes, it was there!
When I greeted Victoria, she told me that two more houses had 
partially fallen, two to the north of us. I then asked about our 
situation. In reply, she led me to the terrace and pointed to the 
reason why our house was still standing, totally untouched by the 
trouble. Left to herself while I was away, Victoria continued to 
pray to Baba, but she also moved into action. From her treasured 
collection of Sai photos, she had taken one and fastened it to a 
window facing the sea. It was that picture of Baba so familiar and 
dear to many of us, where he is standing, smiling, with his hand 
raised in a gesture of blessing, palm outward. Now he was there, 
facing the sea, hand raised with his palm to the sea. Smile and