48 MY BABA AND I
After a correct and ceremonious welcome has been tendered to 
Baba, he usually retires to the family quarters for an intimate 
conversation with mother, children, and close relatives. The 
devotees who are travelling with Swami stay in the salon in quiet 
conversation. Before long, Baba and the family members join the 
other guests, and soon the lunch is served. Baba sits at a small table 
and is served by the hostess; the guests sit on the floor and are 
served by family members.
After lunch, Baba engages in some conversation with the guests, 
and then speaks separately again with the family. Perhaps some two 
hours have now passed since we arrived at the home. Farewells are 
made, and we are once more in the car.
The next destination, it transpires, is a large house in one of the 
city's suburbs. The purpose of going there is unknown to me. I 
could see that the house had a courtyard, and in this courtyard are 
cows. There are a number of cars parked in the street, and our car 
has to stop some distance away. Baba steps from the car and 
moves towards the house. I ask one of the men of our party what 
is going on. The reply is that the owner of the house is a cattle 
dealer and that Swami intends to purchase a top quality milk cow 
to add to the dairy herd either at Brindavan or at Prasanthi 
Nilayam. No sooner does Baba leave the car, however, than 
people start running toward him from all directions. He calmly 
returns to the car and we drive away. However, instead of 
departing, we circle the block and drive slowly past the house; 
Baba glancing into the courtyard as we pass the gate. Then the car 
heads back towards Brindavan.
I ask if Baba will return again on another day to select a cow. The 
reply to my question is that he has already selected the best cow. "
But how could that be?" I said, "He did not even go to the gate, 
much less inspect the cows."
"A glance was enough," replied my informant, "Swami has chosen 
the best cow. The owner will deliver it to Brindavan."