50 MY BABA ANDI
room available, and the assembled doctors tried some 20 or more
times to insert various sizes of catheters into the bladder, but with
total failure — all they could draw was a bit of blood.
By now I was in agony, although I bit my tongue and kept silent. It
was the immediate decision of the doctors that an emergency
opening would have to be made through the wall of the abdomen.
But at this a big argument arose as to whether the operation (which
was an emergency move and could have been done simply and
quickly in a few minutes) should be at Whitefield or at Bangalore.
Since there was this difference of opinion, it was decided to consult
Baba, and some of the doctors went to do this. They returned
without a firm decision and again the topic was argued. Again a
group returned to Brindavan for further consultation. Believe it or
not, there were no fewer than three such trips! On the final trip,
Baba was impatient and told them that since they could not agree,
they had better take me to Bangalore.
By the time I was on the operating table in Bangalore, it was about
8 p.m. Swami sent two of his college students to stay with me, and
needless to say they were superb. My condition by that time can be
imagined. Although I continued to bite my tongue and keep silent, I
was in such agony that I did not know where I was or what I was
doing. The emergency job could have been done in five minutes at
Whitefield, but instead, four hours of this! And still the comedy
went on.
At Bangalore, the job was botched by the resident surgeons; heavy
infection set in, and in three days Baba ordered me back to
Brindavan. He then searched out India's best surgeon for prostate
operations.
After examining me, the surgeon saw that the situation was so bad
there was practically no chance of survival, and why should he
unnecessarily preside at a fatality. But Baba persuaded him, saying
that he would take care of everything, and a date was set for the
operation. Baba then went to Prasanthi Nilayam after having
delayed his trip until arrangements were complete, saying that he
could attend to my difficulty just as well from there.
Baba arranged for the operation at the Whitefield hospital, the Sri
Sathya Sai Hospital for Women and Children. The care was
magnificent, and the multi-hour operation took place in the modern
operating theatre with many devotee physicians and sur-