HAPPENINGS 51
geons in attendance. The entire inside of my abdominal cavity 
was filled with virulent infection, and the tissues were so rotted 
that standard operating procedures could not be used. The 
principal surgeon, Dr. Bhat, who had not met Baba prior to this, 
said that he was calm and confident and in retrospect found this 
surprising in the circumstances. The lady doctors said that certain 
characteristics of the operation procedures indicated to them that 
Sri Baba was there and in charge. I was told later that from deep 
anesthesia I twice said that Baba was there and that I was talking 
with him. After the operation and until I was discharged, the care 
that I received from the lady doctors and staff resident at the 
hospital was wonderful, and this daily care was continued by the 
male doctors when I returned to Brindavan and until I was on my 
feet and healed enough to travel.
Why the big comedy in the whole affair? It took me some time to 
figure it out. We all knew that Baba could have corrected the entire 
matter by his Grace when I first reported the trouble. Why the long 
and agonizing delays? Why the deadly complications at the 
Bangalore hospital?
When Baba returned from Prasanthi Nilayam, he visited our 
cottage almost daily. Once he described the entire operation, in-
cluding my comments under anesthesia. He said that the odds had 
been against me, that he had been there throughout the operation, 
and that had the trouble struck me at any other place in the world, 
I would not have survived. Finally, at the time of another visit, I 
told Baba that I had figured the matter out. My conclusion was 
that I had come to the end of my natural life, Baba had let me go 
down to the final step, and at the last moment, he had reversed my 
natural death by giving me rebirth. Baba smiled and confirmed 
that what I said was true; he had given me new life.
After returning home to Mexico in January, some continuing 
complications arose which took me into a Mexican hospital and then 
an American hospital. Baba sent word to not worry, that these were 
just rebirth pains.