HAPPENINGS 53
pure milk both to the Ashram and to the adjoining village of Put-
taparthi. The Gokulum covers several acres. It has modern sanitary 
sheds for the cattle, houses for the workers and their families, a 
park, and a wonderful statue of Sri Krishna with a cow. The statue 
of Sri Krishna is especially admired by visitors. It was made to 
Baba's specifications, taken to his quarters, and painted by him 
before being installed at the Gokulum. The cows at the Gokulum 
are wonderful in themselves. They are the finest cattle available in 
India and are prize winners in the quantity and quality of milk 
produced.
On this particular day, I had been fortunate to accompany Baba in 
the jeep on the short drive to the Gokulum which he visits almost 
daily. He knows every cow as an individual, greets each one, 
strokes it, and speaks to it. The cows, of course, know him and 
come forward to be greeted. Such a visit to the Gokulum is always 
a happy occasion, and the beauty of the fine animals is a pleasure 
to see.
The inspection of the cattle over, we were ready to leave. I got 
into the jeep first, as is protocol, so that when Baba gets in the 
driver can immediately put the car in motion. But now, Baba 
delayed getting in, for Gita had become aware of his presence and 
was hurriedly coming toward him. Baba waited for her, stroked 
her trunk, spoke to her, and gave her bananas, which someone had 
provided. Then he moved to enter the car, but Gita made a noise, 
and he turned toward her once more, stroked her, and spoke to her 
again. "See," Baba said to me, "She is crying. She is saying, `
Swami don't leave now, stay longer with me."
And, sure enough, as I looked at her closely, large tears were 
indeed rolling from her eyes. The car got underway, and I said to 
Baba, "Swami, people say that, in her former life, Gita was an 
Indian Princess, so devoted to Baba that she took birth as an 
animal so as to be close in this way to yourself. Is this true?"
Baba replied, "Not so. Gita has never been human, but her next birth 
will be as a human being."