HAPPENINGS 55
the empty ring, touching my nose quite often so that it had to be 
seen. The other people there joked that Baba had given me the 
perfect ring, because I could, in my imagination, fill any portrait 
of him into the empty setting.
At length I gave up, afraid to say outright that I had again broken 
Baba's ring, and I replaced it on the chain around my neck. One 
evening with Baba, at Bhajan time in the glassed veranda at 
Brindavan, he looked at me and said, "What is that bump under your 
shirt, Hislop?"
He knew full well what it was, of course, but I at once brought 
it out and said, "It is my ring, Swamiji. Broken again."
"Give it to me," Baba commanded, and I quickly did so. He 
examined it and said, "These stones are no good." And he threw it 
back to me. Then, in his familiar gesture, he blew on empty thumb 
and forefinger, and I could see the shine of gold, but not the ring. 
Again, to tease me, he started it around the room on the side away 
from me, but at length it returned, and he gave it to me.
The new ring was a marvel, a creation of great beauty. It was heavy. It 
must have contained at least three ounces of gold. The band was wide 
and heavy and supported a thick gold disk from which arose a portrait 
of Baba in bold relief, head to chest, all one unit of solid gold. That 
night, at home, my wife and I admired the ring and felt much joy. 
Lucky we did, for the ring had a life of one night only.
The very next morning when the College boys gathered on the 
driveway outside the veranda to greet Baba as he came downstairs, 
and as we formed a circle around him, he said, "Give me the ring, 
Hislop." He carefully examined it then said to me, "What do you 
want, a picture of Swami or a picture of Prema Sai?" (Prema Sai will 
be the third embodiment of this triple Avathara).
What a problem Baba gave me with that question! I simply could not 
answer, so I did not. He then moved around the encircling group 
showing the ring to everyone. Returning to where I was, he again 
said, "Well, Hislop, what will it be? Swami or Prema Sai?"
Imagine, please. Baba I love with all my heart, and he was there 
before me. Could I say, "I prefer Prema Sai over thyself, dear 
Swami?" Never! So I turned political man for a moment and said, "
Let it be thy will, Swamiji."
Very well," he said, "so let it be Prema Sai. You already have 
Swamiji."