56 MY BABA AND I
The boys pressed close around him, almost touching him and leaving 
me hardly any room to see. He held the ring, folded it back into his 
palm, as though what was to happen was too precious for open 
display, blew the creative breath three times through the thumb and 
forefinger, opened his hand, and there was Prema Sai! The ring itself 
was a silver color, that unique 5-metal alloy particular to India. The 
stone was a cameo of Prema Sai, the loving Lord of Creation, 
destined to appear on Earth a few years after the death of the Sathya 
Sai body. It was a brownish stone, highly glazed, sculptured in pro-
file, the bridge and length of the nose visible with a suggestion of the 
arch of the left eye. It was a noble head with shoulder-length hair, 
mustache and beard; the head resting on, or emerging from, a lotus 
flower. His countenance was tranquil, peaceful, majestic.
Baba said, "He is only now in the process of birth, so I cannot show 
more of him. This is the first time he is shown to the world."
The boys were very excited and at once brought up cameras to take 
photographs. But I hid the ring and asked if Baba gave his permission. 
He replied, "No. No photographs."
Wherever I go, devotees ask to see the ring — to see the face of Prema 
Sai. In a year or so, those devotees who had seen the ring sometime 
earlier, said something surprising on seeing it again. They said, "It is 
turning. The whole nose can be seen now."
My reply was always, in truth, that I could see no change. But they 
said, "You see it every day and do not notice."
Nevertheless, I put it down to imagination and the enthusiasm of those 
who were looking at the ring. That is, until this year (1980). One day, 
at a devotee meeting, I was showing the ring, and I looked at it 
carefully. It struck me, "It is different! It is changing!"
Now the entire nose is there and visible, whereas at first the entire 
nose was not visible — or better to say the nose merged into the 
edge of the stone and did not appear to be fully visible. But now 
there is a space between the nose and the edge of the stone. 
Moreover, a portion of the left eye can be seen and also a portion 
of the left cheek. We can hardly wait to see it a few years from 
now. What will it be in ten years? In twenty?
It seems to me that I must be very careful of the ring. I only wear it 
now at gatherings of Sathya Sai devotees. At other times, it sits 
securely in the prayer room alongside the holy crucifix that Baba 
created several years ago.