58 MY BABA AND I
as beautiful indeed, although the chief impression I receive from 
his features is that of power and majesty.
What transfixed my movement and stopped my breathing now, 
was his face . . . The Baba I knew was not there! Instead, there 
was a face of the most extraordinary beauty — quite different in 
shape and cast from the features of our beloved Sai. The charm 
was so great, so poignant, that my heart seemed to twist, almost 
as though it were in pain. Never in my life, not in photos, nor in 
paintings by great artists have I seen a face of such exquisite 
beauty. It was beyond imagination and concept, totally beyond 
experience.
And his color was blue. Not just blue, not the blue with which 
artists paint Sri Krishna, but a deep blue like the velvet blue that 
sometimes can be seen in a dark sky, like a blue that I have at times 
seen from the deck of a ship thousands of miles from shore on the 
Pacific Ocean. I do not know how else to describe it.
I could not take my eyes from Baba's face. At length I caught 
myself and turned away. But, at once, I looked again, and the same 
beauty, surely not of this world, was still there. This continued for 
at least fifteen minutes. The two men sitting with Baba were 
beginning to look at me with somewhat puzzled expressions, for my 
staring was different from what they had become used to.
After a few miles, Sri Vittala Rao (on Baba's left) asked me, "
Hislop! Why were you staring at Swami like that?"
Instead of answering, I directed a question to Baba, "Swami, what 
was that blue colour?"
He replied, "Oh! That? Whenever there is something of 
unfathomable depth, it appears to be deep blue."
That was the end of the conversation about the incident. Naturally, 
the thought had come to mind that maybe this was Lord Krishna, 
but, neither then, nor at any time in connection with this experience 
did I ever say the name, Sri Krishna, to Baba.
There the matter rested until November, 1975. It was before people 
started to arrive in multitudes for the Birthday. Baba's schedule was 
still somewhat free and he was taking me with him in the jeep, and 
so on . . . and probably that was why I was invited into the 
interview. An army man and his family had come from Assam. 
They were devotees, but this was their first time to actually see 
Baba. Often people wait for months for an interview, but this