HAPPENINGS 59
family was called as soon as they arrived. I was seated on the
veranda of the mandir and saw them go into Baba's room. No
sooner had they entered than he motioned to me.
There were mother, father, son, and daughter. Baba spoke to them
in English, most lovingly. He knew everything about their lives,
and it was evident that he was an intimate member of their
household.
After a while, Baba asked me, "Hislop, tell them some experiences."
I complied and, after mentioning some incidents, I told the same
story, just now related in these pages. But not even then did I
mention the Sri Krishna name. The man was deeply impressed and
words broke from his lips, "Oh! That had to be Lord Krishna!"
Baba smiled and said, "Yes, that was Krishna; not the Krishna
pictured by artists and imagined by writers. I showed Hislop the real
Krishna."
The military man said, "Oh! How I want to see Krishna!"
Baba smiled again and said, "Wait. Wait."
There is a sequel to this story. About a month later, in December,
in Brindavan, I was talking with Baba, and I brought forward the
names of some famous saints and gurus of the past. He said some
things about each of them. Then the idea struck me that, wonderful
though it must have been to know those great personages and to
learn from them, yet the present day was the first time since the
time of Sri Krishna that one could have God Himself as Guru. So I
started to say, "Swami! In the thousands of years of time since
Lord Krishna..."
Baba interrupted me before I could say another word and ex-
claimed, "Time since Krishna... ? Iam Krishna! Where is Time?
I folded my hands and bent low to him and said, "Well, Swamiji, this
is the best of all times to be born!"
Baba replied, "Yes. The most fortunate of all times. Even more
fortunate to be born now than during the Krishna Avathara."
Once before, within my hearing, Baba declared himself as Lord
Krishna. This story has been told in detail elsewhere in these
pages. It happened in the Dharmakshetra, in Bombay, and came
about as part of the extraordinary drama of "the weeping saris" to
which a few of us in the room with Baba were the fascinated wit-