68 MY BABA AND I
the child is in ecstasy. Thus, the joy, the ecstasy, the happiness for 
which we long and for which we would willingly pay any price, will 
naturally be ours when, with an open and unguarded heart, we 
merge in love with God. Baba tells us there can be too much love 
between persons and that too much love between persons becomes 
destructive, but that love for God is totally without danger and may 
be totally unrestrained.
To know our Self is to be our Self. To know God, one must be God, 
not just an observer of Him. Like can merge with like, but unlike 
cannot. Fire merges with fire but does not merge with the ocean. 
Baba patiently explains that God is love and that if we would know 
ourselves as God, we must know ourselves as love. Only in love are 
we God and thus merged in Him.
Since we have the interest to transform our worldly life into 
spiritual life and remove that veiling which obscures our truth, we 
pay close attention to what Bhagavan Baba has to say about the 
significance of love. How does the heart rekindle, or release from 
constraint that flame of pure love which was oneself as a little 
child? Bhagavan Baba assures us that it is never too late to turn, in 
love, to God who ever resides in our heart. Baba says that 
although Divinity remains in the background, leaving the stage to 
our ego, Divinity is ever ready to respond if called upon.
Although Baba advises that it will be beneficial if we open our 
hearts to God and love Him without restraint, it does not mean that 
our family and those people very close to us will be denied our 
love. Baba points out that we now have a myriad of loves for 
various people, objects, and pursuits. He advises that we may 
gather all these streams of love together into a full and strong river 
of love and love God with that fullness of love. To explain this, 
Baba uses the simile of a tree in our garden. We notice that its 
leaves are shriveled and dry, and we at once feel compassion. We 
put garden hose in place and direct a spray of life-giving water to 
the leaves, but they do not respond; they do not benefit from the 
water. However, if instead of spraying the leaves with water, we 
give water to the roots of the tree, that life-giving water quickly 
finds its way to trunk, branches, leaves, flowers, and fruit. Simi-
larly, if we gather together all our loves and love God with the full-
ness of love, then our family and friends will naturally and inevi-
tably receive the love they need.