BABA'S TEACHINGS 71
own present faults with less emphasis on the shortcomings of
others. Thus, we are not lacking in guidelines as to how we
should live. Still further, when we have faith in Baba and
dedicate our life to his divine wisdom, our impulses come to be
self-correcting. As our practice of spiritual life goes on, we find
that we are unable to engage in bad actions. If there is an initial
impulse for a harmful action, something arises within us, and
there is no possibility of going ahead with the harmful impulse.
The inner latent Divinity becomes patent as conscience, guiding
our life and our actions.
However, even though we carefully look at our lives and
acknowledge divine guidance to be there, it is still possible to find
ourselves with problems about which we are uncertain, or puzzled. If
and when this is the case, Baba says that we may be quiet for a
while, think of him with all intensity for ten or fifteen minutes and
then put our question to him. He assures us that before long our mind
will be clear, and we will know what is best to do. This is the actual
experience of earnest devotees of Sri Sathya Sai; one's mind does
become clear and doubts are resolved.
As we live our days in the practice of Baba's divine teachings, he
says we must learn to have confidence in our inner Self and in our
good common sense. Let us not find ourselves in the position
illustrated by the plight of the reverent pastor of a church in the hill
country. He had placed his life in God's care. A great storm broke
over the hill country. Extraordinarily heavy rains fell on hill and
valley, the river rose high beyond all limits and the pastor's church
was carried away in the flood. He found sanctuary for himself on
the roof of his church. First, a man on the shore cried out that he
would save the pastor by throwing a rope to him. The pastor's reply
was, "No, thanks. God is my Savior and God will save me." Then
two men came in a boat with the same offer and received the same
reply. Later on, just before the final disaster, some people in a
motor launch approached with the intention of saving the pastor,
but he again gave the same reply. After the final disaster, the
pastor appeared at the pearly gates of heaven to seek admittance,
and he complained to the guardian angels that God had deserted
him in his hour of need. The angels, somewhat taken aback,
replied, "But Pastor, we did send help to you. Right away we sent a
man with a rope, and after that we sent two dif-