74 MY BABA AND I
from him, that in fact he can give an immediate true answer to any 
question in any field of knowledge — spiritual or mundane. Even 
specialists bow to him because of his superior knowledge in their 
fields of expertise.
Baba is not separated from his devotees by physical distance. 
Though he may be half-way around the world in India, engaged in 
actions there, does not prevent him from being with us here. So 
many times has he appeared to my wife and me in our house in 
Mexico or when we were away from home in our car — and this 
has been the experience of devotees in many countries.
Nor, is there ever any doubt as to his instructions to me, his 
devotee. The mind moves to him, or develops a thousand ears to 
hear him. I do not know how it happens, but my mind is in the 
shape of his teachings.
There are only twenty-four hours in the day, and the physical and 
mental energy of an ordinary guru can reach far, perhaps very far, 
but a limitation soon appears. Is there a person on this planet who 
can perceive, experience or even project a limitation for Baba? 
Where is the limit of his influence in India? Already the 
educational system has been changed, and the lives of countless 
numbers of people have been changed, and Baba still has many 
years to live. And now people in other parts of the world are bend-
ing towards Baba. Who can project a limit? And, beyond the 
boundaries of eye and ear, where is the limit for Baba? For years, 
we have known of his dominion over the elements; and, if asked, 
Baba may calmly respond that the entire cosmos is his.
People learn of a guru and come to him. A certain number of 
disciples can use up a guru's time and have direct contact, help, and 
advice. But that is the limit. Where is the limit for Baba? At one 
and the same time, in various regions of the world, great numbers 
of people experience direct contact and direct help from Baba by 
means of inner hearing and intuition, by dreams, by visions, by 
manifest appearance, by leading events, and — very rarely — 
letters and telegrams. Yet, to watch him day by day in close 
contact, as I do because I have entry to his house, he ever appears 
relaxed, even apparently wasteful of time by engaging in light-
hearted conversation with visitors and college students. Not only is 
Baba's advice and help received at so-called out-of-the-ordinary 
levels of consciousness, but he also grants hundreds of