BABA'S TEACHINGS 75
interviews. And, he is as kind and patient and attentive to the last 
person of the day as to the first person.
People say that in their first interview, Baba not only knows 
their thoughts and about incidents long forgotten, but also inti-
mately knows about their home, their work, and equally knows 
about every member of the family. It is evident to people that 
Baba has been a member of the family from the first days.
This Chapter must come to an end, but cannot terminate without 
mention of a factor which is so strange that it is beyond comparison. 
That is; the rescues. Many hundreds of people, including my wife 
and myself, have experienced a rescue by Baba. At a point where 
death is a second or so away, Baba will intervene and save the 
devotee. And, often, Baba, himself, appears and is seen doing the 
rescue. The pages of Baba's journal, Sanathana Sarathi, have 
recorded many a first-hand account of rescues by Baba, and I have 
wished that someone with access to the historical file of past issues 
of Sanathana Sarathi would bring together in one . volume these 
first-hand accounts. What a joy such accounts would be to the 
growing number of Sri Sathya Sai devotees, worldwide.
Baba, ever constant in his Being, will and does respond to our 
prayers, and will and does guide not only his devotees, but all 
devotees of God wherever they are. The total impact of the extra-
ordinary capabilities and actions of Baba, and the endless extent of 
unseen actions that must be inferred from around-the-world 
reports, is that Baba is no other than the Divine Unlimited Energy, 
manifest in human form — at least that is my conviction. I am 
Baba's devotee, and that fact is basically the story of the course of 
my life since meeting him.
Because he is ever illumined, having the limitless power and energy 
of the Divine Omnipresent Creative Energy, Sri Sathya Sai Baba is 
called the Avathar of the Age. We may challenge and test Baba's 
teaching in any way we see fit. Some faith and some concentration 
are required at the beginning: then make the test. Let us have faith, 
try Baba's teaching, and we will know for ourselves the bountiful 
good fortune of knowing him.