BABA'S TEACHINGS 77
be separate from my body in the sense that although the body 
might be destroyed, 'I' am not thereby destroyed? If the body is 
not `me,' how did it come into my possession? If I had any say 
in the matter, no doubt I would have asked for a better and more 
beautiful body! If indeed the body is mine, and not just assumed 
to be mine, what is my responsibility to it? And, further, who is 
this 'we,' this 'I' who at one and the same time claims to be the 
body and to be the owner of the body."
In this way, self-inquiry may start. Or, any incident may spark the 
beginning of self-inquiry. In any event, we are most firmly told by 
Sri Sathya Sai Baba that self-inquiry is essential if we choose to 
become free of illusion and delusion and their accompanying 
miseries. Baba says, "We are not body, mind, intellect, senses. 
They are manipulated by us. The day we recognize this dif-
ferentiation and live in that knowledge; from that day, we become 
aware of our reality and our goal."
At present, many of us are intensely interested in the world. 
Because of our interest in the world and because of our desire for 
the things of the world, we are attached to the world and power-
fully fascinated by it. But it is we who become fascinated with the 
objects and experiences of the world; it is not that the world cap-
tures us and holds us as its prisoner. Of the two, the world and us, 
Baba tells us that it is ourselves upon which all depends, and of the 
two it is ourselves who are all-powerful and truly fascinating. Self-
inquiry is a method to see the obvious truth of this and act on it 
right away.
That which we are able to observe belongs either to the world 
outside our skin, or to our inner world, so we feel: "I am observing 
all this." Self-inquiry means to search out this "I" who feels he or 
she is the observer of all this, to inquire, who am "I" really? What 
am I really and truly? Does this subtle subjective observer have a 
ground or source? About this, the sage Ramana Maharshi ob-
served, "The thought cannot be the totality of the individual for it 
perishes daily in deep sleep, but there is no break in the continu-
ity of one's Being."
Unless we know the answers to such inquiries, and until we realize 
and take our stand in the truth about ourselves, our decisions and 
actions have the terrible potential of being dreadful mistakes. It is 
because of this that Baba says, "So long as one does