78 MY BABA AND I
not know who he is, he cannot escape these sorrows. As long as one 
does not realize the presence of God in everything, one cannot 
escape this sorrow. As long as one does not understand that to be 
born and die is for one purpose only — to understand the nature of 
Atma (i.e. the Self), one cannot escape this sorrow."
The formal question, "Who am I?" although helpful, is not 
essential. There can be a direct and immediate realization of the 
Self as indicated many centuries ago by the Self-Realized sage, 
Astavakra, in response to the question of King Janaka as to how he 
might be free. The sage replied, "0 King, know the Self as pure 
consciousness, the unaffected witness of the phenomenal world and 
you will be free."
If we were to have it in mind to follow Sage Astavakra's advice as 
given to King Janaka, the initial step, to know oneself as pure 
consciousness, is not difficult. The difficulty is to be established in 
that pure consciousness. We, as complicated adults, intent on 
realizing the absolute truth, are worlds away from the young 
children we once were. Great changes have come about in our lives, 
but despite these great changes, our consciousness has not changed 
one iota during the years. Feel the way into consciousness, and it 
will be realized that at a very deep level of our being, nothing 
which has happened, either outside the skin or within the skin, has 
had the slightest effect on that beingness — it remains untouched 
and unchanged. This part of Sage Astavakra's advice will be easy 
for anyone. The difficulty arises within the mind which will not be 
content. The point of deep awareness is quickly abandoned because 
of our fascination with the phenomenal world. About this, Baba 
informs us that for consciousness to remain firm in non-
differentiation into identity and object, the mind must immolate 
itself in total surrender to the deep undifferentiated state; to the 
Divine. There must be that final moment of total surrender to God. 
That crucial moment of total surrender, and what follows, seems to 
be very much an individual affair. For instance, Baba tells the story 
of King Janaka; that immediately following his full, never-deviating 
Self-Realization, he returned to his throne and continued to rule his 
kingdom. The great Self-Realized saint, Sri Ramana Maharshi, on 
the contrary, after that crucial moment of surrender to truth, which 
came in a flash while he was still a young active boy, retired to the 
pit of the temple at Tiruvanamalai and