BABA'S TEACHINGS 79
remained there, absorbed in the Self for many, many months before 
he would even speak to another person.
The ultimate subjectivity is our Self, and all that is not Self is 
objective. The status of non-self, of "object" must be assigned to 
everything in life about which we can say, "Of this I am aware, I 
have a feeling about it, I am thinking of it, I am the witness of it, 
but it is not I, for when it has changed or gone, I remain, and I 
know what has come into the place of that which is gone." In self-
inquiry, we do not pause to investigate that which we perceive as 
being non-self. We simply say, "Not this. Not this," and continue 
onward. It is said that whatever changes and becomes other than 
what it was, cannot be the true, eternal Self of which sages speak. 
We cannot, therefore, accept anything which is subject to change 
as being our ultimate, ever-constant Self.
Some great philosophers hold that even "I," the witness, is 
constantly changing, that both observer and observed are chang-
ing every moment and therefore "permanent and eternal" is a 
phrase without meaning. They are correct as far as they go, no 
doubt. But Baba, and also the ancient rishis say that the state of 
witnessing is not particularized into a "witness" and that if full and 
complete attention is concentrated on the "I," that while "I" will 
indeed change, losing name, force, and form, it will merge thereby 
into the "Absolute" which cannot be described in terms of cate-
gories of any type, including those of "eternal" and "temporary." 
Baba tells that this non-categorized Absolute is his reality, and our 
reality also, if we choose to realize it.
Once self-inquiry is underway, we find ourselves more alert and 
less liable to be acting without really knowing what we are doing. 
Not that we are setting goals, it will just naturally happen that we 
are less "sound asleep" than was the case in the past. Baba has said 
that to be "awake" throughout the day is real meditation. Sooner or 
later, as we become watchful, the very powerful question of "
Who and what am I," whether expressed in those particular words 
or not, will occur to us with great intensity. This is the significant 
beginning; awareness becomes a deep self-inquiry.
The question, "Who am I?" is widely known and is freely bandied 
about in conversation. It has become a worldwide saying because it 
was the central point of the teaching of the great saint of Arunachala 
Hill at Tiruvanamalai in southern India, Sri Ramana