80 MY BABA AND I
Maharshi. But it is also the pertinent question put to us by the 
blessed Avathar, Sri Sathya Sai Baba, as well as by great seers and 
sages of past ages about whom we may read and study. "Who am I?
" is, perhaps, the most vital question which can arise in the life of 
any one of us. Not that the question is necessarily phrased in those 
particular words. However, to know the question and to repeat it is 
one thing. To actually penetrate deep within one's consciousness 
and put the question, is quite another thing.
Whenever our self-awareness is sufficiently deep to actually have 
the intense feeling, "Who am I?," then what is the mode, how is it 
done, what next?
In discussing spiritual matters with interested people, it will be 
found that most devotees pose the question, "Who am I?" and 
look for an answer to the question. The question is taken to be a 
way to get from oneself the deepest knowledge about oneself. For 
this reason, devotees will often express uncertainty; that is, the 
question has been deeply and most sincerely asked, but there has 
been no definitive answer, and the Self is not realized. The solu-
tion to this puzzle is quite plain, but apparently hard to come by. 
People read and reread about "Who am I?" but do not notice the 
explanation of the question. The fact is, there is no duality of 
questioner and answer. The answer is the questioner. This means 
there is no answer in the customary question and answer 
dichotomy. Actually, the question, "Who am I?" is only a means 
we have elected to use in order to focus total attention upon the 
feeling, "I." All other content is dropped from consciousness and 
every iota of burning interest and concentration is focused on "I." 
The goal of the chase is to free our awareness from every attach-
ment or interest or concept or activity other than the concentrated 
attention upon the feeling, "I." The goal is, to be, for an instant, 
totally unencumbered; the goal is, to be, for an instant totally 
without borders, totally vulnerable to the truth of oneself.
If that be the case, then why fasten attention upon the "I" of 
immediate awareness, which certainly will be the empirical "I" of 
our ego-self? The answer, again, is very plain. We are chasing 
hard upon the trail of that "ultimate I," that ultimate "something or 
other" about which we can make no projection. And, that "I" 
which we are presently holding to, is the best clue we have. Upon 
that clue we concentrate. Let us see where it will lead us! The