BABA'S TEACHINGS 83
Today, this day, that precious elixir of knowledge is ours if we are 
sufficiently awake to reach out and take it. This precious knowledge 
is available to us in the teachings of that extraordinary being, the 
divine Sri Sathya Sai Baba. Full release from the turning of the wheel 
of birth, death, and rebirth may be ours now, in this brief lifetime, 
now that we know of Baba; and if we have the good sense to pay 
careful attention to his teachings and the will to take appropriate 
action. However, if we, by our carelessness and inattention, gloss 
over this extraordinary and unique opportunity, who can say to what 
distant shore we will be carried by the hurricane of karmic 
consequence readying itself to manifest as another of our continuing 
existences?
The doubt may arise, what is done is done, and the force of bad 
action will work itself out. How can it now, after the event, be 
erased? Baba gives an answer which applies to all persons, of all 
ages, of all races and nations. He says that a seed will not germi-
nate when it is covered with too much earth. In the same context, 
the seeds of wrong behavior will not germinate and grow into pain-
ful events of our life, if the seeds are covered deep with loving ser-
vice to those who are in need of sustenance, courage, love, and 
help. He is saying that a lifetime of good deeds will cover a 
multitude of past sins. Constant work in loving service to others, 
covers the seeds of past sinful and harmful actions, so they die 
away and do not grow into a new round of misery.
A question often put to Baba is, "But how about the total of our 
impending karma? Can the burden of impending karmic 
consequence, both good and bad, be instantly burned to a crisp 
and thus be done away with in a flash, as it were?" The answer 
seems to be, "Yes, it can, but it is not likely." To this question, 
Baba has given the same answer a number of times. He says that 
nothing in creation, including the unspent reaction-energy of past 
action, can withstand the force of God's Will. But it is not likely 
that the Divine will totally eliminate karma from the life of a per-
son. For Baba has said that people learn through action and its 
result, and that if he made a practice of cancelling out karmic 
consequence by a mere act of will, it would negate progressive 
evolution. In ordinary language, it is to say that if the rules of the 
game are broken, the game is over . . . there is no longer a game, 
the game being "progressive evolution." Baba has pointed out,