86 MY BABA AND I
universal and realizes that it is the universal. If looked at from the 
human time-frame, the length of the evolutionary journey boggles 
the mind. Baba says that the journey starts when life is particu-
larized as granite. The journey is from granite to vegetation, to 
animal, to human, to super-human, to cosmic, to Divinity; and the 
journey is completed in the realization of the Absolute Unmodified 
Divine Principle — the Divine Creative Energy. Comprehension of 
universal progressive evolution cannot be jammed into the confines 
of a time-frame able to be comprehended by the mind, so we can 
safely disregard all that and examine what Baba says about how the 
human person is affected.
We can quickly get to the heart of the matter with Baba's statement 
that the consequence of good and bad deeds is the only luggage 
carried from death to rebirth. In fact, good and bad actions are the 
cause of rebirth and, further; they determine the kind of life into 
which one is born and the kind of nature and character one finds 
oneself having. But we need not worry, for Baba assures us that the 
binding power of our deeds can be overcome by turning to the 
practice of spiritual life and praying to our Lord for His Grace. He 
says, "Do not think or worry about death and birth, or the joy and 
sorrow which accrue to you — they are relevant only to the body. 
Therefore, you should not brood about things which are natural, 
like birth and death, joy and sorrow. One day or other, everything 
existing in the world will have to undergo modifications. Seek out 
the Divine, and, while discharging your duties, keep that Divinity 
always in view."
Baba, in divine love for us, shows us exactly how we may be free 
from the monstrous core of good and bad deeds which follow us, 
until we waken and give some intense examination to our 
predicament. He tells us that if we will study his teachings and put 
them into practice, there is no need whatsoever to have any wor-
ries. The spiritual practices he tells us to engage in will lead to hap-
piness and to that peace which passeth all understanding; to joy in 
the eternal now and total freedom from the past.
It is said that the idea of reincarnation was included in early 
Christian writings, but was deleted at a later date. Certainly rein-
carnation is not uniformly taught in Christian churches today. 
Nevertheless, many westerners wonder if the concepts of action, 
consequence, and rebirth might not explain the seeming injustice