BABA'S TEACHINGS 87
evident in both world affairs and in individual lives. If we push
someone, for example, and get pushed in return, action and its con-
sequence are evident, and most of us would not cry, "Injustice." But
if a kind-hearted, innocent person is crushed by misfortune after
misfortune, while at the same time a person of evil action and char-
acter gains fame and fortune, we tend to cry, "Injustice!" But
according to the concept of reincarnation, apparent injustice ceases to
be that when the time-frame is widened. The "good" person is now
experiencing the results of past bad actions, and the "evil" person is
now experiencing the results of past good actions.
Like the illustration of "push and get pushed in return," most of the
events in our life are the consequence of present action, according to
Baba, and it is only major deeds which carry their seeds of
consequence to subsequent births.
Much of what we experience can be seen as the consequence of
present action. The illustrations are endless: take driving lessons and
become a good driver; go to the gym and become stronger; love
others and treat them with kindness and consideration and (in
general) receive kindly treatment in return. The "in general" excep-
tion is mentioned because of a possible karmic relationship with
certain people — the "push" we gave them may have been a serious
action in a prior life, and we may be about to get "pushed" in return.
The complications and cross-currents of action and consequence are
not clear and evident to most of us, fortunately for us. We are not
fully happy with our actions in this life — think of the intolerable
burden it would be if we had to agonize over the actions of
innumerable past lives.
Action and consequence appears to be a cruel revolving wheel from
which there is no escape, since each reaction in its turn is also an
action with further consequences. The wheel is the symbol the
Buddha used to picture the endless sequence of birth, life, death, and
rebirth. The Buddha pointed out that Release could be achieved by a
deep and intense realization of the Four Noble Truths and their
unremitting practice, such practice being more likely to result in
Release if one became a detached monk, engaged in spiritual
discipline in cave and forest.
Baba, the blessed Avathar of this age, out of the depth of his limitless
knowledge, tells us that in this age we may be released from birth,
death, and rebirth by spiritual discipline and the full-