88 MY BABA AND I
ness of our devotion to God, even though we remain in family and 
society. The spiritual discipline appropriate to this age is explained 
in Baba's divine teachings. The priceless secret of Release is to 
render unto God that which is His — and everything is His in the 
final analysis. Baba tells us to abandon the notion that we are act-
ing in order to enjoy the fruits of action, and instead, dedicate the 
fruit of every action to God. God will then, Himself, be the Doer of 
the action and will graciously assume the burden. We, no longer 
grasping the role of doer, no longer reap the consequences; God, as 
the Doer, takes the fruit of the action. Baba tells us, "Both the Jnani 
(i.e. one who is free from rebirth) and the Agnani (i.e. one who is 
ignorant of what must be known) will have desire; desire for the 
other world and the burden of past karma, all in equal measure. 
Only, the Jnani will not have the consciousness that he is the doer. 
So, he will not be bound. The mind is the cause of bondage (i.e. 
bondage to the cycle of birth, death, and rebirth) as well as 
liberation. The mind is the cause of everything."
There is a simple and effective way to begin detachment from 
reincarnation.
This simple way is to do good to others, to do good for others, 
instead of aiming always at gaining benefits for ourselves. Baba 
points out that just as a flower-seed covered with too much soil 
will not germinate; the seeds of our past bad actions will not 
germinate if covered by good deeds. The common saying is, "
Good deeds cover a multitude of sins."
We do not know directly for ourselves that reincarnation exists — 
even our so-called visions of the past are but thoughts existing at 
this moment, for a brief moment, then disappearing. We have to 
take the information about reincarnation, in faith, from someone 
we trust. For many of us, Sri Sathya Sai Baba is trustworthy — he 
is ever poised and balanced in truth, needs nothing from us, and 
has no cause to deceive us, nor advantage to gain from us. He 
says, in effect, "True, you do not know for yourself. Faith and 
trust come first in spiritual life and experience follows. Plunge 
into spiritual discipline with faith and by this you will find your 
own truth and you will know fully all that is worth knowing."
Is reincarnation true or not? If, in faith, we accept it to be true and 
then engage in the appropriate action, where can be the