BABA'S TEACHINGS 89
harm? To love God with all our hearts and to do good for others —
where can the harm be in loving God and in doing good actions?
A puzzle remains — "Who" or "What" reincarnates? Is it this 
changing personality which reincarnates? That seems unlikely. But if 
we look to Baba, he provides an answer. He says, "What is this `I' 
whose limit is the body, but which is distinguished from the body? 
There is no soul other than it, and if it is done away with, only the 
non-dual spirit remains. What is distinctive of the human is the 
causal body which persists until Release."
What Baba is saying is that as long as we do actions in order to gain 
their fruits, we are fully involved in and are part and parcel of that 
process. Therefore, we must experience the consequences of the 
process whether they are happy consequences or painful 
consequences. We have attached ourselves to that process and are 
identified with it — its life is derived from our energy and when we 
cease to provide energy, the process will not continue. The Buddha 
said that the "karma" which we experience is like a string of beads 
trailing along with us — the beads do not follow us, we pull the 
beads behind us and keep them with us. The moment we cut the cord 
which pulls the beads, we are free of them. When we remove 
ourselves from the throne of the doer, which we have usurped, and 
let God, the rightful King take His throne, we are at once released 
from the burdens of kingship.
If we surrender our minds to God, accepting Baba's statement that all 
is God, then the identity of the actor is shifted from "ourselves" to 
God, and what is done is His doing. We then feel the care-free bliss 
of Release, and we have by that transcended the periphery of the 
personality.
This release from ego-identity and the surrender to God of the idea of 
separateness from God can be done — in fact, Baba says, it is 
possible at any moment. As soon as the stormy clouds of ignorance 
are swept away, God, our own Self, will shine forth. Baba has clearly 
said that this flash of truth can be instantaneous. If our ignorance is 
deep-rooted and stubborn — as is almost always the case — and we 
do not know instantaneous Release, nevertheless, we can know and 
be convinced of its possibility by virtue of practice. Nobody can 
prevent us from accepting that whatever we are doing is being 
prompted by the Divine — which is our innermost Reality. We can 
cross out the "I am doing," yet action will still continue.