92 MY BABA AND I
of evil personified as the Devil — for despite this time-honored
solution we continue to look for more light on the topic.
Explanations are also put forward to indicate there is no actual
need for a second principle (the Devil). For instance, the God-
Realized saint, Sri Ramakrishna, responded to a question as to
why God allowed evil in His world. He said that God created the
world in play, as it were, and, without villains, there would be no
drama. Sri Ramakrishna's explanation is a description of the "
mechanics" of the drama but still leaves the question, "Why does
God, Who is love and mercy incarnate, allow evil in His world?"
Masters of divine wisdom reply to questions according to what the
questioner is able to understand. But if replies do not satisfy, we
have to dig deeper, if we are at all resolute. In his discourses,
Baba has declared that God Himself does not do evil, that God is
Love only, and that evil actions are ego actions.
If questions and doubts still remain, one must look to oneself and
plunge even more deeply into the matter. A first question could
be: has one, in the past, engaged in some action which now would
be regarded as an evil action; an action which one would not
repeat? If so, why would one do such an action in the past and
why would one not do it now? The answer is that one acted un-
wisely in the past instance, because the action seemed justified ac-
cording to one's judgment at that time. And one would not repeat
the bad action now, because one knows better now.
But why did one not know better in the past, at the time of the evil
action? The answer is that one's intelligence and feelings at the time
were overshadowed by wrong notions about the world, other people,
and oneself. In other words, one was under the sway of ignorance
and identified with ideas appearing in the mind and with passions
which agitated the emotions, and therefore acted unwisely.
But Baba assures us that one's innermost or essential being is
Divinity Itself. How then, could the Divine (my Self) engage in bad
actions? Yet, the fact is, one did so. One could properly ask —"Why
did I, the Divine, engage in bad (or evil) actions?" If the correct
answer to this question is seen, it will also be the answer to the more
general question, "Why does God allow evil in the world?"
Evil in the world can continue only as long as individuals continue
to do bad actions, for evil actions come from individuals; it is
individuals who do the evil. Of course, people will continue to suf-