BABA'S TEACHINGS 93
fer through disease, accidents, and natural disasters, but we do not 
regard these as evil actions for they are due to natural conditions. For 
instance, wild animals will attack because that is their nature.
It might be said that not only tigers, but people also attack because 
of their nature. This is certainly true and from this arises the label, 
"evil person." But not everybody has such a nature, so we must 
look to the particular individual concerned for an explanation. 
Baba has said there are no "evil" persons, but there are evil actions. 
So the question will need to be, does the person do evil actions 
because of an evil nature, or is he said to have an evil nature 
because he does evil actions? If the latter is the case, there can be 
change, and Baba's remark indicates the latter case is the correct 
one. In this context, if a person can see why he, himself, does an 
evil action, then the entire field will be illumined. An action is 
regarded as being evil if the motive is evil. For instance, one 
person tortures his victim to satisfy hatred, or in revenge, or to en-
joy the suffering of the other. Baba says that such evil action 
comes from the ego, the "ego" being the feeling: "I am that entity 
which is born, fears, enjoys, suffers, and dies."
If one alertly watches himself in action, he can observe that a bad 
or evil action takes place in the light of one's ideas and concepts 
about himself and about other people. These erroneous ideas and 
concepts constitute the "veil" of ignorance which hides one's true 
nature, which Baba says is Divinity Itself. If a person is willing to 
calmly consider Baba's teachings, which he explains in his dis-
courses and which are reviewed in some detail in the pages of this 
book, he will find that wrong notions, which one has held for all 
of his or her life, will fall away and one will cease to do bad 
actions — there will no longer be a base for evil actions. This 
direct experience will give one the direct knowledge of how evil 
comes into life and how evil may be overcome. If we clearly see 
this in ourselves, we will be able to give a true explanation to 
others when they bring up the question, "How can there be evil in 
God's world?"
A person who has realized God as the Reality of his or her life is no 
longer under the illusion that the body is his or her true self. Such a 
person has realized that God, the inner Self, is the Source of 
happiness and he no longer mistakes the body and its actions as the 
source of happiness. Such a person is no longer ignorant about the