94 MY BABA AND I
role of the body and no longer gives authority to body desires. Be-
ing no longer ignorant about this vital point, such a person no 
longer engages in sinful actions. The possibility that every in-
dividual in the world could be at the point of wisdom at one and the 
same time is improbable; for if Sri Ramakrishna's statement is 
correct, God's play would then be over and there would no longer 
be the drama of human life. Even at a mundane level, a universal 
change would be unlikely, for "every fruit on the tree does not ripen 
at the same moment." But if one is able to see in himself the basis 
for evil actions, he will know how evil comes to be.
It is oneself, the aspect of God manifest as a human person, who 
does evil because of the veiling power of ignorance. It hides one's 
true nature, just as a small transient cloud hides the blazing sun. A 
slight wind will blow away the cloud hiding the sun, and the 
practice of the divine teachings of Baba will disperse the ignorance 
hiding the truth from oneself. That accomplished, no more evil will 
come into the world from oneself.
About evil in God's world, one must be very careful. Baba tells 
us there is God only. Accepting this, we will, for instance, realize 
that God is manifesting Himself as the tiger according to tiger 
tendencies. Likewise, the human body manifests God according 
to its tendencies. The tiger cannot transcend its tiger-tendencies, 
but the human being, Baba assures us, can transcend his or her 
tendencies. Baba advises, "Do not think that you are human and 
that you have to reach the state of the Divine. Think rather that 
you are God, and from that state you have become a human 
being. As you think this way, all the attributes of God will 
manifest in you. Know that you have descended from God as 
human beings and that eventually you will go back to your 
source."
Caution has to be used in worldly matters, and we have to treat 
the beings who populate this world according to their status and 
their actions. It would not be good sense, for instance, to go up to 
a wild tiger and give it a hug! From tiger-God it is best to keep a 
distance. Likewise, with human persons, whose status of wisdom 
we do not know, we must be alert and watchful. Baba says, "Let 
hearts be together, but keep bodies separate."
Even though we work our way through the puzzle as to how evil 
actions may come about, although all is God, and even though