BABA'S TEACHINGS 95
we understand that effects are brought about by causes, yet our 
understanding may be shaken by the impact of large-scale suffer-
ings, such as genocides and famines which cannot be alleviated 
promptly because political considerations dictate to the contrary. 
Here, we feel, suffering is so vast in its extent and depth that surely 
God's love for His human family will move Him to intervene. To 
secure an answer here, it would be best to question Baba directly, 
and this was done by Sri R. J. Karanjia, the senior editor of Blitz 
Publications, Bombay. Sri Karanjia asks the questions and Baba 
answers:
Q: The critics of Swamiji ask why Sai Baba does not 
help people in distress by bringing rains in times of 
drought or creating food where there is famine by means 
of his Sankalpa Shakti. Cannot an Avathar help 
humanity to control the natural forces and prevent ca-
lamities like earthquakes, floods, droughts, famine, and 
epidemics?
BABA: This is precisely what I am doing by incarnating 
the indwelling God in man to overcome such calamities. 
There are two ways in which an Avathar can help 
people: an instant solution as against a long-term one.
Any instant solution would go against the fundamental 
quality of nature itself as well as the Karmic law of 
cause and effect. Most people live in the material world 
of their desires and egos which is governed by this law. 
They reap the fruits of their actions. This brings about 
their evolution or devolution. If the Avathar intervenes 
to instantly solve their problems, it would stop all 
action, development, even evolution. This solution can 
be ruled out because it totally negates the natural laws.
The other and more effective alternative presents a long-
term solution whereby the Avathar leads the people 
themselves to a higher level of consciousness to enable 
them to understand the truth of spiritual laws so that they 
may turn towards righteousness and steadfastly work for 
better conditions. This will relate them back to