96 MY BABA AND I
Nature and the Karmic law of causation. They would 
then transcend the cycle of cause and effect, in which to-
day they are involved as victims, and thereby command 
and control the natural forces to be able to avert the 
calamities you mention.
Q: You mean that you are presently raising the 
consciousness of mankind to a Godlike condition to 
enable them to command their own destiny?
BABA: Exactly. They would become shareholders of my 
Sankalpa Shakti (divine power, universal energy). I have 
to work through them, rouse the indwelling God in them, 
and evolve them to a higher Reality in order to enable 
them to master the natural laws and forces. If I cure 
everything instantly leaving the people at their present 
level of consciousness, they would soon mess up things 
and be at one another's throats again, with the result that 
the same chaotic situation would develop in the world.
Suffering and misery are the inescapable acts of the 
Cosmic drama. God does not decree these calamities, 
but man invites them by way of retribution for his own 
evil deeds. This is corrective punishment which induces 
mankind to give up the wrong path and return to the 
right path so that he may experience the Godlike condi-
tion of Sat-Chit-Ananda — that is, an existence of 
Wisdom and Bliss. All this is part of the grand synthesis 
in which the negatives serve to glorify the positives. 
Thus death glorifies immortality, ignorance glorifies 
wisdom, misery glorifies bliss, night glorifies dawn.
So, finally, if the Avathar brings the calamities 
mentioned by you to an immediate end, which I can, and 
do, when there is a great need, the whole drama of 
creation with its Karmic (universal inescapable duty) law 
will collapse. Remember these calamities occur not 
because of what God has made of man but really because 
of what man has made of man. Therefore, man has be 
unmade and remade with his ego destroyed and replaced 
by a transcendent consciousness, so that he may rise 
above the Karmic to command.