100 MY BABA AND I
sent. He is the One named in all faiths and religions, and we our-
selves are no other than He. Thus, by the declaration of the all-
wise, all-knowing Baba, we may know that our Self is the goal of 
our spiritual practice, and that the pathway to God-Realization is 
the pathway from ourselves to our Self. The pathway is within 
this "fathom-long frame," it is not a pathway to be found in the 
outside world.
Who is to point out this inner pathway to truth? Who is to guide 
us, who will be a true "Guru" to us? To these questions, Baba 
answers, "Today there is only one true Guru, and he is God. Call 
upon God." If our call is loving and sincere, He cannot with-
stand our call. It is said that there is one who is more powerful 
than God, Himself, and that one is His true devotee. God cannot 
withhold His Grace from His true devotee. Let us take even one 
step towards Him, He will take many steps towards us. Baba tells 
us this, and we may believe him. We may start our spiritual prac-
tice with full confidence, without worry or fears, but with joy and 
enthusiasm.
God is Love, and divine love is forever. Hatred, anger, lust, envy, 
and their brood are ego interests and are not forever. If we aim to 
put aside that which may exist for the time being, but which is 
transient in nature and therefore cannot be relied upon, how do we 
proceed? The most direct answer, one which comes from Sri 
Sathya Sai as well as from Krishna, the Avathar of the last Age, is 
to love God with all one's heart. Surrender every action to Him, 
the inner Charioteer of our lives. Keep the thought of Him present 
in the mind always, and be carefree and happy. The Lord will take 
care of us, and in due course, when our minds and hearts are puri-
fied, He, the Lord, will bestow wisdom upon us and will bring an 
end to the age-old round of birth, death, and rebirth with its 
accompanying misery. Were the spiritual practice impossible for 
us, the teaching would not be given.
When God is the beloved of our heart, we will always be 
thinking of Him. If we love beauty, God is the archetype of all 
beauty; He is the most beautiful of the beautiful. If we love to be 
loved, then God's love for us is sweet beyond measure. If we 
love truth, then God is the very foundation of truth and wisdom.
The question may arise, "Where is God?" The answer is that He will 
graciously take up residence wherever we think Him to be.