BABA'S TEACHINGS 101
For some great devotees, the question is, "Where is God not?" 
Wherever they look, God is there. Draupadi was once in great 
peril and she urgently called upon the Lord to save her. He did so, 
but not until after some delay. She reproached him, "Lord, I called 
you, why did you take so long?" Krishna in turn asked, "Where 
did you look? From where did you call me?" She answered, "I 
called you from your residence in your capital city." Krishna an-
swered, "Oh, that is the reason! I had to come from there to here. 
Had you called me from your heart, where I am always, I could 
have saved you without this delay!"
Baba assures us that God is indeed that close to us. He is always in 
our hearts and is always our true Beloved, even if we deny Him and 
even though we may be allowing ourselves to be fascinated with the 
transient objects and persons of the world outside us.
For ourselves, we may find one spiritual practice to be more 
attractive than another. For this reason, Baba says, "Do not con-
demn the many gurus. I am in each one." That is, if we turn to 
God in any form, He will respond according to our ability to 
receive. At one time, early in our search for truth, in our Sadhana, 
we might adopt a spiritual practice which later would be a quite 
inadequate, or even quite wrong. For those devotees of God who 
turn to Him as Sri Sathya Sai, the Avathar of the Age, Baba 
teaches a number of ancient spiritual practices, any one of which 
we may adopt according to its appeal to us, and any one of which 
will safely carry us to the infinite subtlety of the Lord, who is the 
final Truth, resident everywhere. If we turn to Baba and pray to 
him, he will most graciously be our guru and he will guide us and 
protect us.
Wonderful spiritual practices are revealed to us by the divine Baba. 
We may adopt one only, or several combined, according to our 
delight, and with total safety. Their practice will be our Sad-hana. 
Each of these marvelous and beautiful ways of Sadhana is as 
practical today as it was in the most ancient of times. Each will 
safely take us on the inner path to the realization of Divinity. And, 
each is a path of happiness, for our guru will be the beloved of our 
heart, our divine Baba. These wonderful and enlightening spiritual 
practices are described in this book.