BABA'S TEACHINGS 103
survive. Tendencies, which spring up from delusion and desire, have 
their growth and sustenance in ignorance and cannot survive and 
grow in the pure light of Divinity. Bad tendencies are likened to a 
ferocious all-consuming fire which dies down without struggle when 
fuel is no longer fed to it.
In order for the practice of the repetition of the divine name to have 
its effect, it must be started and then continued. To illustrate the 
need to start and to continue, Baba tells the following story: At 
dusk, a traveler came to a large forest which he needed to cross 
through without delay. With him, he had only a small lantern 
whose light did not extend beyond a 3-foot radius. Yet the forest 
was dense, dark, and threatening with unknown dangers. Intimi-
dated, the traveler sat down at the base of a tree and began to weep. 
Soon, a party of travelers came from the depth of the forest and, 
seeing the man weeping, stopped and asked about his trouble. After 
hearing him, they said, "But Sir, a lantern which throws light even 
two feet ahead is sufficient to pass through this dark forest. But you 
must rise, carry your light, and walk forward." The forest is the 
dark, unknown course of our life, and the lantern is the little, small 
name of God. But by taking that little name and walking forward 
with it, we will safely pass through the forest of life.
Baba tells us that name and form are not separate, that when God is 
given form, the form is accompanied by His name. And, conversely, 
where His name is said, the name is accompanied by His form. 
Name and form together are God manifest in the full light, glory, and 
power of Divinity. Thus, by repeating His name with love; God, who 
is love, responds. He is called and He comes to us, happy and loving, 
and willing to walk with us and be our divine companion. In addition 
to the repetition of His name, by also visualizing the accompanying 
form, which we love, we give added scope for an outpouring of 
devotion to our supreme Lord.
God is pure light. He has been held to be so throughout the ages. 
We, living our days in that pure divine light, will not be able to hold 
on to our bad tendencies even if we wanted to do so. Bad tendencies 
are as flowers which grow in the darkness — they cannot survive in 
the pure light of the Lord; they will diminish and disappear. Our 
good tendencies give us no trouble, for in the presence of the Lord, 
they will not develop into a big ego.
Along with our tendencies, the ego, which is constructed of