104 MY BABA AND I
our tendencies, will also finally humble itself at the feet of the 
Lord. Heart, then totally purified, is fit to realize its truth, its 
inherent unity with God. It will seem extraordinary to our compli-
cated minds that such a simple practice will purify our life and 
make heart and mind fit for enlightenment, make us fit for release 
from the entangling web of opposites, of likes and dislikes, and 
make us fit to fully be the eternal undifferentiated Divinity. Baba 
declares this to be the power inherent in the spiritual practice of 
the divine name.
Repetition of the divine name with visualization of the divine form 
was known in the early days of the Christian era. Baba has said that 
Jesus advised his devotees to adopt the practice. Some years after 
the death of Jesus, Christian mystics were told by their preceptors, 
"Collect your mind, constrain it to enter the heart with the breath 
and keep it there, but do not leave it idle, instead give it to the 
prayer, 'Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy upon me." 
Thereafter, the mystic, whether in the monastery or wandering 
throughout the land, would constantly visualize the form of Jesus 
and repeat the name, suffusing it with his love for Jesus.
The supreme value of the divine name was known also to the 
disciples of Muhammad. When questioned by a devotee, "What if 
the heart is blind?" Muhammad replied, "For everything there is a 
polish that taketh away rust, and the polish of the heart is remem-
brance of God."
For some of us, the practice of the repetition of the divine name 
may seem a bit dry at first. But that is inevitable if the heart itself is 
a bit dry. Pay no attention to this. Continue the practice and very 
soon love will accompany the sacred name.
There may be a doubt, "How can I be repeating the name and 
visualizing the form when I am engaged in some task? It would be 
inattention to my work, and that would not be good." To explain 
this point, Baba tells the following story. A certain king had a 
heavy burden of state and was unable to find a competent minister. 
He turned to God in prayer. God appeared and asked, "What do 
you want?" The King explained that he was in dire need of a good 
servant, for his kingdom was getting out of hand. God then granted 
the King's wish, but warned him, "The servant will be efficient, but 
if you fail to keep him busy, he will turn upon you and destroy you.
" The King gave no weight to this. However, the