BABA'S TEACHINGS 105
servant had boundless energy and intelligence, and one day the King 
realized with a shock that the work was almost completed. He then 
remembered God's warning, and in panic again turned to God in 
prayer. God appeared and said, "Well, what is it you want now?" 
The King explained, and God in His mercy advised him, "I will save 
you. Do this: Instruct the servant to build a wall twenty feet high. 
Then, when he has no task to accomplish, have him climb up and 
down that wall until you have another task for him."
The servant is the mind. The wall is the name of God. When the 
mind is idle, put it to work repeating the sacred name of God; for 
if left idle the mind will surely destroy us. When we must do 
work, we address Baba and say, "Lord, I dedicate this work to 
you." Then, we go ahead giving full attention to the work. Baba 
assures us that work in his name is tantamount to repeating the 
name. When the work is done, then return the mind at once to the 
repetition of the sacred name.
A question may arise: which name and form of God to use? Since 
God is held to be one and indivisible, although diverse in name 
and form in the minds of people, He is fully manifest in any name 
and form which we attribute to Him. Baba's suggestion is, "Take 
the name and form of God which is most dear to you." If at 
present the devotee does not cherish any of the historical names 
and forms of the Divine, the name and form of Baba may be 
chosen. In this case, the name used may be "Om Sai Ram" or "Om 
Sri Sai Ram."
Whatever name of the Divine is chosen, Baba suggests that the 
form to accompany that name be deliberately created. The name of 
Jesus, for instance, is best accompanied by the mind making its 
own form of Jesus rather than picturing a form taken from a 
painting of Jesus or a statue. Baba tells us that when the mind 
creates God's form, then the mind itself becomes that form, and 
God Himself will fill that form of Himself with His Divinity.
Baba informs us that this age, which is named Kali Yuga, is 
considered to be low and gross, but that, in fact, it is the best of 
all ages for the devotees of God. We have Baba's assurance that 
in this Kali Yuga any person who gathers his or her will and 
energy into a one-pointed attention to the divine name and form 
can thereby penetrate the veiling of the Divine and gain Release, 
Liberation, and the realization of his or her ultimate truth.