BABA'S TEACHINGS 107
means the merging of the particular into the Absolute. Baba
states, "When existence is Absolute, it is all right. When it is par-
ticularized it is wrong. That is the whole truth."
Merging into the Absolute means clearing away the veil of ignorance
which is the delusion of the dual existence of the differentiated
particular versus the One Absolute. Thus, the practice of meditation
is not really practice for a new achievement, even though it involves
action with a particular end in view.
This merging of the apparent and describable particular into the
invisible and indescribable Absolute could never take place unless
the particular was essentially the same as the Absolute. For instance,
a ring made of pure gold can be thrown into a melting pot with an
idol of pure gold and they will merge because the different forms and
functions of the ring and the idol are finally irrelevant, for the two are
actually one and the same pure gold. Baba says that the particularized
individual and the ultimate Absolute, the Lord, differ only in name,
form, and function. Otherwise there could be no merging, and
meditation would not be a viable concept.
The merging of the particular and the Absolute — the individual
with God — can be done, and from ages past into the present day, its
reality and its value have been demonstrated in the lives of great
saints. The Absolute, manifest in the particular, is witnessed in the
life of the Avathar. In him, the twin facets of the particularized
individual and the divine Absolute are united, and this is witnessed
by all persons who may be privileged to approach the blessed
Avathar, Sri Sathya Sai Baba.
With the above mentioned considerations in mind, it will be
evident that the word, "meditation," includes any means whose
end will be the disappearance of the delusion that God and the
essence of oneself and the essence of the world are in reality other
than the same. The perfection of meditation is referred to as
Samadhi.
What are the various true meditation techniques? A few are known,
and no doubt there are others being quietly practiced in the context of
the various cultures and various religions and faiths. But this lifetime
of ours is too brief to uncover, explore, and test the many excellent
meditation techniques before choosing one and adopting it for our
own practice. Our available years merge into each other with
shocking velocity. Thus, it is only good common sense to
concentrate our attention and limited time on the medita-