108 MY BABA AND I
tion advice of he whom we regard as the Supreme Guru, the 
supreme knower, our beloved Sathya Sai.
Baba advises that the supreme meditation is devotion to God and 
direct union with Him through love. The love in us and the love that 
He is, are one and the same, regardless of the form love presently 
takes in our life and regardless of the function to which we presently 
apply that love. This way of rending the veil of delusion is fully dealt 
with in other pages of this book. But suffice it for the moment to say 
that this way of merging the particular into the Absolute does not 
mitigate the value of traditional meditation techniques.
Baba tells us how to do the best of all sitting meditations, and also 
gives us a very firm, even a harsh warning of some dangers.
First the warning. Throughout the ages, many ways to meditate have 
become known and have been practiced. No doubt each was 
successful in its day and no doubt an endless succession of human be-
ings have used those meditations and have managed to become free of 
delusion and illusion. But "in its day" is the important phrase. "In its 
day" essentially means the availability of a living guru knowing fully 
the particular meditation, himself fully Self-Realized through that 
meditation, and thus fully competent to safely guide any of a great 
variety of individuals to the fruition of that meditation. Baba does not 
condemn any of the ancient meditations, including those which have 
persisted in the knowledge of people to this very day. He does not say 
that these meditations are bad or wrong. But what he most 
emphatically does say is that today not even one of these ancient and 
potent meditations has a living guru fully competent to guide its prac-
titioners. The guides are not Self-Realized in the meditations they 
teach; they do not know the meditation fully in its every aspect.
A few practitioners of meditation may be calm people of good 
common sense and no difficult tendencies, and these few may be 
able to practice any meditation and stay out of trouble for the time 
being. But in meditations full of power and unknown potentials, the 
meditators are moving along a very tight and narrow path, so to 
speak. To lose balance in meditation and fall away has disasterous 
consequences in the life of that particular individual. Baba 
comments, "You have only a few years of life remaining. Why take 
these risks?" His advice about spiritual life is, "Start early, drive 
carefully, arrive safely."
For people who are determined to stay with meditations already