BABA'S TEACHINGS 109
in practice, it would be good to dedicate that action to Baba and pray 
for his guidance and protection. We have that right, and if Baba is 
approached with love and faith, Grace will not be withheld.
Baba tells us that in this day and age God is the only genuine and 
safe Guide. He says that in this day and age there is only one good 
and safe sitting meditation; and that is the ancient meditation upon 
light. It is called "Jyoti Meditation." It is safe, effective, its practice 
will be successful, and Baba tells us that he himself will be our inner 
guide in the meditation, if we will but call on him.
To begin the Jyoti meditation, one first prays to the Lord to accept 
and guide the meditation. One should sit in a comfortable position, 
with spine straight, and gaze steadily through partially closed eyes at 
the flame of a candle. Continue until the breath is calm and slow. 
Continue until the flame of the candle (the Jyoti) is firmly visualized 
in the mind when the eyes are closed. Move this pure flame, which is 
now firmly visualized, to all parts of the body. Wherever impurity is 
touched by the Jyoti, the impurity vanishes, for it cannot survive in 
pure light. Now move the light away from the body; first to family 
members, then to friends, acquaintances, enemies, and finally let its 
benignant quality bless the entire universe. Bring the Jyoti back to 
the body and emplace it in the heart. Sit quietly for a few moments, 
offer a prayer of gratitude to the Lord, and then carry on with daily 
affairs.
A good practice, recommended by Baba, is to enshrine in the Jyoti 
that form of the Lord which is most dear to you. The first two 
steps of the Jyoti Meditation just described are named concen-
tration and contemplation. They are preliminary and the only steps 
which can be guided by the mind.
Contemplation is moving the Jyoti from the particular to the 
universal. The Jyoti is moved away from the particularity of the 
body to others, both near and far. The limitation of one's body 
falls away from consideration, and one's attention expands without 
limit until it encompasses the entire cosmos. In his meditation, 
the great Swami Vivekananda was heard to exclaim, "Where is my 
body? I cannot find my body." Such was the expansion of his 
previously limited self.
To start the meditation by gathering one's normally fragmented 
attention into one unitary concentration, an object of concentration is 
needed to serve as a focus for the mind's concentration.