110 MY BABA AND I
This first step is a common factor to meditation techniques. In 
Buddhism, for example, more than 40 acceptable objects of con-
centration are named and described. Baba informs us that the Jyoti 
is the best object of concentration.
The third and final step in the meditation practice occurs when the 
particular is lost in the Universal, the individual self-identification 
falls away, and only God is. This third stage of the meditation 
practice is above the senses and the mind and cannot be reached 
through the mind's volition. It comes only through the Grace of the 
Divine. With the practice, mind and heart become purified; mind is 
not wandering from thought to thought and desire to desire, but is 
alert and concentrated. Then, in a flash, the time is ripe; the medita-
tor, the meditation, and the object of concentration vanish and God 
alone is. Only this final stage is called Meditation. After a time, the 
habitual mind re-identifies itself and the meditation is ended.
Baba tells us there are some circumstances which are helpful to a 
smooth start to the daily sitting meditation. The early morning 
hours from 3 a.m. are good, for all is still and quiet then; but these 
hours are not possible for everyone, and they are not essential to 
meditation. One should not sit directly on the ground, but should 
arrange for some insulation of the body from currents which 
naturally move in the earth. It is well to be in a room where there 
are not extremes of temperature, and a light woolen shawl is con-
venient for throwing around the shoulders. The meditation should 
be at the same time and place each day. Swami jokingly says that 
it is more convenient for God if He knows the time and place of 
the appointment. If away in travel, continue the meditation at the 
same hour and, in imagination, feel that you are seated in the 
accustomed place. As for length of time allocated to the medita-
tion practice, there is no set time, but twenty minutes to half an 
hour would be appropriate for beginners.
From ages past, spiritual aspirants have been advised to adopt the 
practice of meditation. Baba comments, "The mind is prone to 
gather experiences and store them in memory. It does not know 
the art of giving up. Nothing is cast away by the mind. It does not 
have even a short interval between one thought and the next. And 
in the continuous succession of thoughts there is no order or rela-
tionship. Meditation is the name for a period of rest we provide 
for the busy and wayward mind."