112 MY BABA AND I
There are loving thoughts about some of our co-inhabitants of 
planet Earth, there are sensible and more or less neutral thoughts 
about many topics, and there are devotional thoughts about sacred 
matters. But all thoughts are born from some concern or other 
which might or might not be totally pure; they persist for a few 
moments and then they die. We might call certain thoughts won-
derful and pure at their birth; but in their death there is disintegra-
tion and its by-products, one of which would be that the pattern of 
the mind has been influenced and modified by the thought to some 
minute degree. By the term "a pure mind" I doubt if we mean a 
mind that is pure in part or for a certain time only.
When we say "a pure mind" surely we do mean a mind that is pure 
in itself and not pure because of something else. We call the sun 
pure light because it is light in itself. Would we not mean it in that 
way when we speak of a pure mind? For the moment, at least, it 
seems to be that when we use the words a pure mind, we do not 
mean pure because of any particular kind of thoughts. It appears 
that we may mean a mind that is pure because it has no thoughts 
at all.
A mind without thoughts! What is a mind like which is without 
subtle thoughts or gross thoughts or any kind of thought? From 
time to time we experience that state of mind. To many people, 
perhaps to all people, there comes a moment or so, now and then, 
when thoughts slow down almost to nothing or stop entirely. 
People say that in those moments they feel peaceful and happy. 
When there are no thoughts, one is in a peaceful state, and that 
peace is felt as happiness. But thought-free peaceful moments do 
not last very long with most of us. A multitude of concerns are 
waiting to disturb us. Quickly there are thoughts again in the 
mind. So when we say "a pure mind" it is doubtful that we mean a 
mind which cannot but think about concerns. And there are cer-
tainly innumerable very urgent concerns every day which we can-
not reasonably ignore.
When we thus inquire into what is meant when we speak of a pure 
mind, we appear to have a dilemma, for a mind which accom-
modates thought cannot be considered "pure." Yet, inevitably, 
concerns do arise in daily life, thought is provoked, and the mind 
becomes agitated. At this point it might appear that "pure" and "
mind" may not fit together. Purity itself is real to us, for we