BABA'S TEACHINGS 113
know that a little child or a superior person can be "pure at heart," 
"pure of motive" and so on. And, mind itself is real to us, for we 
note that what we call mind in ourselves is seen to be operative in 
other people also. Could it be that because mind is vulnerable to 
thought we will need to compromise our topic and speak of "our 
more or less pure mind?"
Perhaps so, but there are still possibilities to be explored. Could the 
mind be eliminated? Could we live as an intelligent flexible human 
being without a mind? Or, is there a mind whose silence is so firm 
and strong that no concern could ever break into that silence; and, 
without thought, how could there be even that minimum action 
which is necessary to preserve life?
I believe we would admit that our knowledge is not so complete 
that we can always and immediately give correct answers, 
especially about something as intangible as the mind. I believe 
most of us would have to admit that some aspects of our life are 
not yet totally clear to us. Many of us, perhaps most of us, could 
not say for sure that the mind can or cannot be eliminated, that we 
could or could not live effectively without a mind, or that there 
could or could not be a mind which is pure — a mind which is 
firmly and forever silent. Those areas of knowledge are not within 
our present experience, and to try to reach conclusions without first 
having some experience would be speculation only and not valid 
reasoning. What we need is to experience further, then draw some 
reasonable conclusions.
At this point in the inquiry, as to what we mean by "a pure mind," 
we find ourself in a dilemma because of limited experience. It 
would be good to turn to Sri Sathya Sai for information about the 
mind and for advice as to how we may have a direct and deep 
experience which would allow us to break out of our dilemma. 
Those of us who have listened to Sai, and talked with him,know 
that he is immensely wise and that no person has been able to 
frame a question to which Sai cannot give an immediate and cor-
rect answer.
Sri Sathya Sai provides us with information about the mind which we 
would be hard put to find elsewhere. He tells us that purity, wherever 
it may be, is divine love not particularized by notions of self. From 
notions of self there arises the concept of "yours" and "mine." From 
the feeling of "mine," desire and love