114 MY BABA AND I
for the objects of desire arise, concerned thoughts are then formu-
lated, and this flux of desire and thought is referred to as "our 
mind." Baba tells us that when desire for objects and the 
pleasurable stimulation of experience is eliminated, thought 
subsides. He tells us that true, pure, and direct communication 
from one person to another is through silence, not through a mind 
agitated by limited thoughts which are then set forth in limited 
words. To explain this, the example of the sage, Dakshinamurti, 
is cited. Through silence, Dakshinamurti conveyed the absolute 
pure and perfect knowledge of liberation to his disciples. In the 
disciples there was direct seeing; just as when we see a mountain, 
we know that a mountain is seen without having to resort to 
thought and reason.
However, it cannot be denied that mind, or at least the potential of 
mind, does indeed exist. Sai himself says that a pure mind is an 
aspect of Divinity and is, therefore, in itself, divine love and 
divinely peaceful. When notions of self and the concerns of desire 
fall away, mind is none other than the Divine Itself. To speculate, 
then, that a mind which is pure and which is not agitated by pat-
terns of thought cannot thereby meet the challenges of daily life,
would be to say that the all-powerful Divinity cannot effect His 
will. Such a viewpoint would not be tenable, since neither the 
reality of our being nor the immeasurable energy and activity of the 
universe are dependent upon the agitated and transient flux of 
thought and desire which we call "our mind."
If we were willing to concede the possibility that Divinity might not 
be foiled, so to speak, by the non-existence of that flux of desire 
and thought which we believe to be our mind, we might then ask 
Sai to advise us how we might quiet our mental agitation.
It must be quite evident to us that if our life continues as it is now, 
our mind will continue as it is now. Baba confirms that this is 
indeed true; a pure mind represents a fundamental transformation. 
For our life to reach its inherent destiny, as a flower blooms in due 
course or as a fruit ripens in season, our notion of limited self must 
surrender to the inherent divinity of the pure mind. Baba likens the 
situation to the well-known parlour game of musical chairs. In this 
particular version of the game, our ego (our notion of self) must 
vacate his (or her) throne in our mind so that the Divine may in 
turn occupy the chair. When occupied by the