BABA'S TEACHINGS 115
ego, the mind is a flux of desire and thought, but when the Divine 
occupies the "chair" the mind is pure and quiet.
According to Sai, when the mind is transmuted from thought and 
desire to Divinity, our speech and action become the direct 
unhindered expression of the divine will. All actions then originate 
from the consciousness of God rather than from the individual 
mind. To illustrate this, Sai tells the story of King Janaka's sur-
render of his mind, speech, and action to the Divine in the form of 
the youthful sage, Astavakra. King Janaka asked the sage for that 
which would bestow liberation. Astavakra replied that in return he 
would require something of supreme value. King Janaka declared 
that he was an honorable man, that his word was his seal, and that 
without even a moment's hesitation he would give whatever was 
asked. Sage Astavakra then said, "0 King, give me your mind, your 
speech, and your action." The King replied, "Lord, I give you my 
mind, speech, and action," and fell silent. Astavakra instructed the 
king, "Sit here on the ground." Then he walked away into the forest. 
The king's courtiers, unable to get any response when they spoke to 
the king, brought the queens from their palaces, but not even they 
could elicit one word from the seated king. The courtiers, now 
fully alarmed, spread out through the surrounding forest until 
Astavakra was found. "0 Sage," they protested, "You have cast a 
spell upon our king!" "Not so," replied Astavakra, "Let us return." 
King Janaka was still seated on the ground, surrounded by the 
distraught queens. Astavakra said to him, "Arise." When Janaka had 
done so, Astavakra said, "Speak to the ladies who are now here 
with you." King Janaka did so. He and his attendants then returned 
to his city, and for many years thereafter, Janaka, bereft of any 
sense of self, ruled his kingdom; the Divine Consciousness being 
expressed through him.
Thus, Sai tells us that a pure mind is a mind that is surrendered to 
God and bereft of all notions of self. The transformation necessary 
to acquire a pure mind is no less than "Die man! Be now God!" 
This transformation from a busy agitated human mind to the purity 
of a divine mind is said by Sai to represent a quantum jump, not 
an incremental progress.
Sri Sathya Sai's information is wonderful indeed, but we are 
inquiring about ourselves as we now find ourselves, and we need 
more than thrilling and enlightening words. We very much need