118 MY BABA AND I
The question then is, how can we surrender our life to Baba, and 
what actually is surrender, what does it mean?
Baba himself asks, "You say you surrender to me. How will you 
surrender that which is not yours and which you cannot even 
control?"
In various ways of saying it, in various conversations, Baba points 
out that the body and its senses do not obey us, that emotions surge 
up and down despite us, that we cannot even keep the mind still for 
it jumps here and there like a monkey. We command memory and 
intelligence to be sharp and acute but even they fail us quite often. 
These faculties which we normally regard as "I," do not seem to be 
"I," so the term, "I" surrender "myself" cannot be applied to them. 
By this, Baba does not say that we are unable to surrender our lives 
to the Divine, he is saying that we need to go beyond our initial 
impulse and earnestly enquire about "self" and about "surrender." 
The meaning of the words "surrender to the Divine" is given by the 
God-Realized saint, Sri Ramana Maharshi who speaks from direct 
knowledge. "Surrender is the same as self-control. The ego submits 
only when it recognizes the higher power. Such recognition is 
surrender. Let us not pose as the doers, but resign ourselves to the 
guiding power." Sri Ramana Maharshi is saying there is nothing to 
be surrendered: "recognition of the higher power" constitutes 
surrender to the Lord. But recognition of the higher power is not an 
idea which can be woven into a plan of action. We can only know 
what is meant when that "recognition" actually occurs.
In our resolve to surrender our life to the guidance of the Lord, we 
learn that we are unable to give up those faculties which we thought 
to be major aspects of ourselves, and we are told by Sri Ramana 
Maharshi that "surrender" occurs only upon "recognition of the 
higher power." Everything seems to be pushed away from us into 
the future, into the future when we are wiser and have better 
understanding. These are some of the considerations which puzzle 
Sai devotees and which lead to much discussion when devotees 
meet together.
All the more or less routine doubts mentioned above, plus the many 
other doubts which may arise, can be quickly and permanently 
resolved. We can be brought back from concepts of future 
accomplishment to present action if we will only give earnest study