BABA'S TEACHINGS 119
to the divine teachings of the divine Baba. He tells us that only 
through love can we surrender to the Lord, and that is now — not in 
the future. At this very moment, without further thought about it, we 
can begin the surrender of our lives to the guidance of the Divine. 
There is no force, external to ourselves, to prevent our surrender to 
God. This very moment we can start our surrender to God by giving 
up our attachment to whatever is not us, and we can also give up our 
attachment to our own actions. At the actual moment of action, we 
can offer every action to God. We are free to, who is there to 
prevent us? Baba has said that he, that is, the Omnipresent Divine 
Wisdom and Divine Energy, will accept our actions and take their 
consequences upon himself. And, the many things we say "my" to 
— my anger, my envy, my unhappiness — the very moment such 
thoughts and impulses arise, we are free to turn to God, the Beloved 
of our heart, and say, "Take them 0 Lord, they are unwelcome, they 
are not mine, they do not belong to me, I am no longer attached to 
them." Baba once told the writer, "That is exactly right. Give them 
to me."
Then, there is the most vital element of all: that which is our true self 
can surrender to the Divine, and there is no one to say "nay." What is 
our true self? Our true self is love. We are love, itself, and we can 
offer that love to God. Love is irrevocably us, our nature. Even the 
most depraved person is love at his core; and to fully transform his 
life, he need only surrender that love, himself, to the Divine. We can 
joyfully start our surrender to God this very moment by giving 
ourselves, by giving love to that Name and Form of God which we 
find to be most dear to us.
No one and nothing in the universe can stop us from devotion to 
God, from love for Him, from acknowledging Him as the guiding 
power, from resigning to the will of the Almighty. That has been 
proven time and again in the lives and cruel deaths of countless mar-
tyrs. In love we can surrender to Baba, and he says that our love is 
all that he wants. It is enough. Everything else will fall in place, 
naturally and easily. No need even to worry about that glorious final 
surrender of the particular to the Universal. In love, it, too, will 
come naturally and easily in due time. Baba says so, and, in love, we 
may believe him.
To be sure, our love may not be shining in full glory at this moment. 
Dark clouds hide the sun in dull weather, but that is not to