122 MY BABA AND I
enced, is not independently real. Upon considering this, upon con-
sidering that people of deep experience have said this, surely we 
will be bound to wonder what Baba means when he calls to us, "
Awaken! Awaken! Awaken, my dear."
If our life in the world is said to be like a dream, then what is a 
dream? When we fall asleep, the body is given over to its auto-
nomic life rhythm, life continues, and the involuntary nerve and 
glandular systems of the body continue to function, even though 
we have forgotten the body and are no longer aware of it. If we do 
not go into deep sleep where even our mind is forgotten, we begin 
to dream. In the dream state, our mind continues to be suffused 
with energy and instantaneously creates a populated world where-
in we identify as "I, Myself" with one out of the many human per-
sons appearing in the dream, all of whom our mind has created. 
The world of the dream and the events which occur in the dream 
are wonderful to behold. The objects and events of the dream 
world are totally real to us, at times painful and at other times 
happy and delightful, yet we at once declare them all to be a 
dream, unreal products of our imagination, as soon as we awaken. 
We realize that the dream world which was so real while dreaming 
was real only so long as the dreamer continued to dream. The 
awakened person at once realizes that somehow or other his mind 
created the dream world, created the objects in that world, experi-
enced an imaginary contact of his senses with the imaginary ob-
jects — the entire panorama having no "outside" reality, but all 
created by the mind, contained within the mind, and all made out 
of the same mind-stuff.
It is in that same way that sages declare the world of common 
experience to be delusive and non-real as soon as there is an 
awakening to Absolute Reality. Such awakened ones realize that 
the apparent world, its animate and inanimate objects, the cosmic 
panorama: time, space, birth, death, binding, and Liberation — all 
are mind-created illusion, all are without independent reality, and 
nothing really exists except God in the primeval state of the 
Supreme Undifferentiated Absolute. Such is the extraordinary and 
to us unbelievable fact declared to be so by Self-Realized sages and 
saints throughout the ages. The words of sage Astavakra bear 
repeating, "Till one has actually realized the Self, it is hard to 
believe that the Self is really what the seers describe it to be, and