124 MY BABA AND 1
Baba is saying here that even now, while we are still using thoughts 
to think about the truth, rather than seeing truth directly, we can 
begin to appreciate that much of what we consider to be our solid 
world is, in fact, not substantial for us — and we can let it go. He 
says that the world is as good as being non-existent so far as we are 
concerned if we do not follow our thoughts and do not thereby 
become involved with a world which has been cognized only as a 
thought process.
To understand what is meant by the phrase, "as good as," a simile 
is used, even though all similes are useful only up to a point. 
Suppose a field is covered by a growth of very sharp thorns. If we 
walk across that field with our feet enclosed in leather shoes, for us 
that field is as good as it would be were it paved with leather in-
stead of being covered with thorns. That is, for us, the thorns are as 
good as non-existent. Our feet know only leather, and the thorns 
are as good as non-existent for us. In the same way, we may ask, 
where is the need to bring a world into existence for us when we 
are at liberty to not follow our thoughts to areas which we need not 
experience? Such areas of the world need not be our world — they 
are as good as non-existent for us unless we wish and decide to 
make them existent by following our thoughts and becoming 
involved.
If we are interested in finding out the truth of the matter, and if we 
choose to listen to Baba, we can know what he means by "
Awakening." If we give earnest attention to Baba, and with in-
terest and intensity do the spiritual practice and discipline he 
recommends, we can awaken from the world dream — the ap-
parent world, which is sustained for us by our belief in its 
independent reality and by our non-inquiry as to its reality, or the 
nature of its apparent reality. We can awaken to the real presence 
of our infinitely charming, ever-happy Lord, and then realize with 
the greatest of wonder, "We are not two. I am He. I am the shining 
Reality. There is no ignorance. Time is not. There is neither birth 
nor death."
This is our awakening from the idea and the conviction that the 
world is being correctly perceived by us and understood correctly 
by us. This is our awakening from the idea and the conviction that 
the world is an infinite extension of self-existent objects ranging 
from our faculty of mind and intelligence, to our body, to