BABA'S TEACHINGS 125
the neutron, to still undiscovered suns, and that the correct field for 
our existence is an infinite range of experiences stemming from 
contact with objects.
In time we will hear the whisper, "Awaken, my dear, awaken!" And 
to us, still asleep, the thought will occur, "I hear this whisper, but I 
am already awake. My own experience and this world are real, how 
am I to find the meaning that I should awaken?" It is that very 
question which Baba is answering. He is telling us how we may 
awaken. We may awaken through the great power of the spiritual 
discipline — the Sadhana — set out for us by Baba. So great is its 
power that very soon dispassion is born in us, and we begin to lose 
our all-consuming fascination with the world. Soon we begin to 
question the validity and necessity of our habitual reactions to our 
experiences. We ask ourselves, "Is hate necessary? Is envy 
necessary? Is it necessary to be miserable and unhappy when 
experience is painful and unsatisfactory? If this world and its 
experiences are, like a dream, not independently real, and therefore 
need not be regarded as being independently real, and if my true 
nature is bliss and joy, as is said by Baba, then why not right now 
be happy and refuse the idea that I be miserable?" And this is 
indeed what Baba says, "Be happy. Be happy!"
That the world is said to be unreal even though apparently real may 
worry us at first, but if we will put aside our emotional response 
for the time being and calmly consider the new viewpoint, it will 
not seem to be so unreasonable after all. It is not that the world is "
really" unreal. God is its reality. We do not see clearly because the 
world is presented to our minds, by our senses, as a medley of 
names and forms and experiences. Baba explains, "Eyes and mind 
are products of the world. They must say that their material cause 
really exists. Body, senses, and mind are products of food eaten by 
us. They must say their original matter (the world) is real and 
cannot deny the existence of their original matter." Thus, Baba 
explains that we cannot expect eyes and mind to deny the reality of 
their own material cause. Understanding must transcend sensory 
impressions.
From time to time Baba will briefly mention the topic of the world's 
ultimate reality, and a selection of his comments follows:
The senses and the intellect can discern only the