BABA'S TEACHINGS 127
these sense-impressions, we form concepts and reach conclusions. 
But in no way does he suggest that when we see this we should stop 
action and retire to forest or cave. He tells us:
Swami is saying one should only 'control' the senses. It 
is not that one should not have senses. One uses brakes 
only when there is some danger. If it is within limits 
and properly done, nothing will be harmful. Sense 
organs have to be brought under control and used for 
the welfare of the 'Resident' of the body.
In this same context, Baba quotes Sri Krishna, `
Therefore, Arjuna, control your mind and senses and 
recognize the defects which are inherent in objects; then 
you can live in the world.' Use all the senses in a proper 
and ethical way, according to the time and circum-
stances.
The "defect" of an object is that we see in it the promise of 
happiness, whereas, in truth, we find only temporary pleasure.
Baba declares that the world, as experienced by us, is the mind. The 
world is created by the mind and is then externalized and 
experienced as being "outside." The process of externalization is 
familiar.
Each night we see it happen. A dream is a series of thoughts and 
ideas and feelings which are externalized and then experienced by us 
as the dream world. A normal intelligence, upon awakening from a 
dream, at once understands this, and understands there is no 
independent objective continuing dream world.
Baba informs us that when we are awake, our mind constructs 
ideas appropriate to our sensory impressions and then we external-
ize those ideas as the waking world. That externalized world 
becomes our tangible experience because we do not just witness 
thoughts, but allow the thoughts to move us into actions. That ac-
tion with its reaction comprises our tangible world.
We are told that while we perceive the world correctly according to 
our sensory impressions, we fail to correctly understand what we see. 
We complain that we cannot see God even though we are looking at 
Him at that very moment. The simile is given that when we are at the 
seashore and observe waves and foam and