128 MY BABA AND I
bubbles, we do indeed see them, but we clearly understand that the 
waves, foam, and bubbles are not separate in identity from the sea, 
despite the forms they have and the names we bestow upon them. 
Because these forms rise and dissolve even while we are looking at 
them, we easily understand that they are real only in a relative 
sense, that their separate identity is transient and not permanent. We 
are told that, in like fashion, we do indeed see the world as 
presented to us through our sensory impressions, but do not realize 
we are looking at God Himself. We do not realize that the world of 
forms we see and the names they carry are real only in a relative 
sense, that their reality is transient and not permanent, and that all 
these forms will eventually decline and merge back into their 
substratum, which is the Eternal Supreme Absolute. The many 
names and forms exist as such for a period of time only and are real 
only relative to each other during that time period. Only the 
Absolute Divinity is timelessly real.
Here we are given a warning: Respect relative reality when we 
are experiencing relative reality. The world is duality; without 
duality there can be no action, and as name and form, we our-
selves live as action. As name and form, we are separate from 
each other, even though we are One in timeless Reality. Baba 
warns: keep forms separate and hearts as One. In Baba's life we 
can observe this principle. He loves all creation as One, as 
Himself only, but demands strict discipline from everyone 
associated with him.
Granted that we have faintly heard Baba's whisper, "Awaken,my 
dear," and granted that we are still lightly dreaming and not yet 
really awake. What can we do? Baba tells us how to start. We can 
start by strengthening our faith in his teachings. He clearly states 
that all is God. Right now we can begin to correct our 
misunderstanding of what we see. From this moment, we can tell 
the mind that what we are seeing is God. Throughout the day we 
may continue to correct our understanding and tell the mind that we 
and that other person, that tree, that rock — all are really God, that 
His blissful Divine Presence is wherever we look. If we adopt this 
spiritual discipline with energy and determination, we will 
experience a feeling of happiness arising in the heart.
As long as we accept that the world, as it appears to be, is real and 
true and desirable, we will see it so, and we will continue with