BABA'S TEACHINGS 129
attachment to that which we believe in. But if we look outside of the 
particular shelter of happiness and safety which we may be enjoying 
for the time being, then we will be forced to ask, "Is the world as 
desirable and delightful as we now believe it to be?"
Certainly Nature is more than a glorious sunset, more than the 
divine peace of the distant mountains in the early morning. There 
is something else too. In the air, on the earth, and beneath the 
surface of the sea, creatures are busy killing each other for food, or 
destroying each other because of savagery or meanness; while at 
the same time, in the world, there are other actions which are 
selfless and deeply kind and protective. Will this mixed and 
seriously flawed external world which we are now experiencing 
provide us with ever-constant peace beyond the limits of time and 
space? We may be quite old and experienced, but we cannot bring 
forward even one worldly person who lives in that bliss which is 
said to be our reality and which nothing in this world can modify. 
Baba declares, "From the highest planet in the material world down 
to the lowest, all are places of misery where repeated birth and 
death take place. But one who attains to my abode never takes birth 
again."
It is good that some doubt should arise about our dedication to the 
world as we experience it. It is good to ask ourselves if what seers 
and sages say about the world is true. It is good that the pain and 
misery which we observe in the world and in ourselves prompts us 
to ask questions. It is good to consider that even from a painful 
dream we may in due course awaken — or now be awakened. 
Conceiving that the world of our daily life may not be the reality 
which it appears to be is a very strange idea indeed. But once the 
possibility is admitted to serious consideration, we will be required 
by our own intelligence to dig deeply into the matter. Baba's divine 
teaching reveals to us how to make this inquiry.