BABA'S TEACHINGS 131
the pill" and practice spiritual life under Baba's guidance, he assures 
us the final irrevocable experience of ever-present happiness will 
follow. We will be cured, once and forever, of the disease of 
unhappiness, misery, and despair.
If we find ourselves willing to accept Baba's advice and act upon it, 
now is the right time even though we might be less than pleased with 
our present state of readiness. For how can even a very skeptical 
person argue against a minimum amount of faith? Do we not have 
faith in many things before we have proof? Seeking to drive to a 
certain address, for example, we ask a stranger for directions, and, in 
faith, we follow those directions. We are willing to give faith to what 
a stranger says — cannot we give as much faith in the beginning to 
what Baba says?
Baba acts for our benefit and he speaks and acts from love. His 
happiness, the happiness he will guide us to is related to love — 
not to objects. Love is the eternal timeless reality, and it is from 
love that Baba teaches. He says, "To give love and to receive love. 
This is my business. There is no limit to my Ananda (i.e. Bliss). I 
am always immersed in bliss. This is because my bliss is 
associated with love and not with material objects. If you follow 
this path, you will realize peace of every kind."
One might say about Baba that he is the embodiment of an 
irresistible energy which could be likened to a mighty river, or an 
ocean tide, or a gentle wind at dawn in that no obstacle can stay 
that flow of energy. He is a supreme person, yet his favorite role 
appears to be that of a benefactor to his devotees. His entire life 
seems to be spent in that role. He is never seen taking time to do 
anything for himself or to acquire anything for himself. But it 
would be folly to think we can observe him and in that way really 
know him. The fact is that even ardent devotees who have been by 
his side for thirty years or more confess they are unable to define 
boundaries to his nature.
About himself, Sri Sathya Sai Baba says, "My truth is inexplicable, 
unfathomable. I am beyond the reach of the most intensive inquiry, 
the most meticulous measurement. There is nothing I do not see, 
nowhere I do not know the way, no problem I cannot solve. My 
sufficiency is unconditional. I am the Totality — all of it."
Such considerations bring us to the heart of Baba's teachings. The 
heart of his teaching is the astonishing declaration that he is