134 MY BABA AND I
war and peace, birth and death, and the events which arise in the 
lives of strangers, friends, and family. Often, although we see, we 
remain silent and detached. And, even if we join the action, there 
still remains an aloof center or aspect of ourselves which is the 
observer of the whole drama including our own actions, feelings, 
and thoughts. It is that silent center of ourselves which is called "
The Witness." The spiritual practice of The Witness is to never 
become identified with anything whatsoever which is observed, 
including any personification of The Witness, even though the mind 
which is rational and dualistic identifies itself as The Witness. The 
practice is to remain in that aloof or detached state of witnessing 
despite mental and emotional turbulence and/or physical involve-
ment.
This state of witnessing is the common experience of everyone. 
When we are reminded of it, we can see at once that we already 
know it. We need only stay at the point of witnessing. That is the 
spiritual practice, to stay at the point of witnessing. It is something 
like sitting silently at an upper-story window of one's house and 
witnessing events in the street. With the spiritual practice of The 
Witness, the mind is not supported in its turbulence. Sooner or later 
there will be moments when the mind is totally silent. The mind will 
spring into activity again and again. But once there is that direct 
conscious experience of witnessing, of silence and peace as one's 
basis, ignorance can never thereafter be in full command of our life.
The spiritual practice of Ekaantha Bhakthi, as recommended by 
Baba, has to do with breathing. Explanations of how breath and 
mind are linked may vary from culture to culture, but there is a 
general perception that such a link does exist. It is common experi-
ence that when our mind is agitated, breath is short and fast and that 
when we are calm, breath slows down. Baba does not advise us to 
adopt the practice of any system of Pranayama, the science of 
breath, except under the supervision of an expert teacher. In fact, he 
warns us not to adopt practices which include control of the in-
breath, retention of the breath, and control of the out-breath. He 
says that such practices are highly dangerous and that today there 
are no teachers fully competent to supervise the various modes of 
Pranayama.
What Baba advises in the practice of Ekaatha Bhakthi is just sitting 
quietly, breathing evenly, and allowing the breaths to become