BABA'S TEACHINGS 137
We are even discontented at our poor memory of what we have 
learned, and we try to make permanent records.
Further, suppose we are in a state of wonderful happiness. Our 
surroundings are blissful, our companions perfect, and all is peace. 
Suddenly a small ant takes a bite from our leg, and the pain makes us 
jump and shout. We cannot rest until the ant is brushed off and the 
pain subsides. Our peace and happiness was so vast —cannot we be 
satisfied that we are happy and not worry about one small 
imperfection? NO! We are discontented at even the slightest 
modification of perfect, endless happiness.
Putting aside abnormal psychological states, all the activity of we 
human beings, if analyzed, is aimed at achieving one or all of three 
goals: to exist always, to know all things always, and to be perfectly 
happy always and under all conditions. Anything less than perfect 
realization of these objectives gives rise to discontent.
In short, we have the irrepressible craving to be Divine; for perfect 
Being, perfect Knowledge, and perfect Bliss is said to be the eternal 
nature of God. This extraordinary craving to be like God which we 
cherish at all levels of our being — is this state of Sat-Chit-Ananda 
really possible, or is it just a myth, something imagined?
Here I state, and a large company of other people support the 
statement — that full and perfect Being-Knowledge-Bliss is an ac-
tual present reality and such an existence may be observed in the 
daily life of the divine Avathar, Sri Sathya Sai Baba.
Baba tells us that our craving for Divinity arises within us because 
Divinity is our essential nature, and that only our manifold and 
changeable impurities prevent us from fully realizing that we are 
God, that Baba is ourselves, and that we are not different from, nor 
separate from him.
The sadhana, the spiritual discipline leading to the realization of our 
essential Divinity is graciously explained to us by Baba in his divine 
teachings.