140 MY BABA AND I
do not put them into practice. But now we must awaken and realize 
that Baba, the Lord incarnate, who is living today, says from his 
own reality, "It is my experience that I am in every heart." He tells 
us the eternal truth of man, nature, and God directly and not from 
hearsay or books. We can go to him and, with our own faculty of 
hearing, listen to him declare from his own universality that only 
God exists, that all else is appearance. We can know this for 
ourselves and we can, starting from this instant, be carefree and 
happy. Moreover, out of his love for us, Baba spends every moment 
in loving service to us and is teaching the truth so that we may be 
free of ignorance and be happy. Grant us the good sense to have at 
least provisional faith in what the living Avathar, the living 
embodiment of divine wisdom, is saying to us.
Acknowledging that many wise people may indeed be doing exactly 
as Baba says, why is it that even the least of us are not at once carefree 
and happy as soon as we hear the truth from Baba? Baba tells his 
devotees that the lack of a heart overflowing with divine love and 
happiness is due to the confusion which accompanies desire.
Through habit, perhaps ages-long habit, we look upon the objects, 
situations, and experiences of the world as being real in themselves. 
The mind will always attend to that which it takes to be real. 
Happiness and misery are experiences which the mind takes to be 
very real, and these experiences arise from contact with the world. 
Desire for more is aroused by the experience of happiness, the desire 
to avoid misery is aroused by the experience of misery. Sri Sathya 
Sai points out to us that neither the happiness nor the misery which 
follow in the wake of desire are lasting, and thereby neither are real. 
When asked how to kill desire, his response is that it is not possible; 
that desire is an expression of the universal energy by which we 
move and have our being. But the confusion which now accompanies 
desire can be eliminated by turning every desire away from worldly 
objects and directing it to God. Desire to have God Himself from 
whom all blessings and all prosperity flows. Why scramble in the 
dust for coins when we can have the Treasury itself?
Baba teaches us that as soon as a desire arises, turn it to God, then 
confusion will end, and we can be carefree and happy. When desire 
is allowed to turn away from God and to fasten itself upon objects, 
ideas, conditions, or experiences, it becomes attached and