BABA'S TEACHINGS 141
reluctant to let go. To illustrate this unhappy attachment, we are 
referred to the way monkeys are captured. Food is placed in a con-
tainer which has a narrow neck, into which the monkey thrusts its paw 
groping for the food. The monkey closes its paw around the food at the 
bottom of the vessel, but the narrow neck of the vessel will not allow 
the monkey to pull out its closed fist which is grasping the food. 
Thereby, the monkey is caught by its attachment to the object of its 
desire. Were the monkey to abandon its attachment to the food, its fist 
would open and it would regain its freedom. In our human way, we are 
suffering the same fate. Whenever there are unhappy or anxious 
moments, if we can separate ourself from our feelings long enough to 
take a close look at the situation, we will see that invariably some 
attachment is involved. Once identified, the attachment can be 
abandoned by the power of our intelligence and our will, and that 
particular source of discontent will no longer trail after us.
Be carefree and happy! That is the divine advice. Baba assures us 
that without doubt it is possible to live in the world, fulfilling all our 
duties and, at the same time, remain happy and unaffected by events. 
This illustration is given. Suppose that an actress, taking the role of a 
poor person, is in fact a wealthy lady with a happy family and vast 
estates. She plays her role and suffers with such deep feeling that 
members of the audience find themselves in tears. Despite her 
wonderful art in portraying suffering and misery, has she ever even 
for a moment truly forgotten that she is a wealthy, happy person? 
She plays her role to the full, but always knows deep in her mind that 
she is wealthy and happy and that when the play is over, she will 
remove her costume and make-up and will rejoin her family. Baba 
again and again likens us to actors in a play. He says that the 
individual self is the role; the reality is God.
If we are unhappy now, if we believe our role and forget that we are 
the majesty of Divinity, it is of our own choosing; no outside power 
is forcing us to be inwardly unhappy. Try it now — at this moment 
be happy and carefree. Happiness will be felt, even if briefly. But 
that moment of happiness is the proof of itself. Baba says that 
happiness is one of the essential factors of enlightenment. Take hap-
piness as a spiritual practice. Feel happy and continue to feel happy 
regardless of conditions and events. Happiness, joy — they are other 
words for love. Be happy, be joyful, be loving at all times; that is the 
way to God, declares Baba.