BABA'S TEACHINGS 143
times. In books about ancient times, occasionally one will note a
phrase included in a conversation between a guru and his disciple to
the effect that certain answers to questions are intended for the
satisfaction of the ignorant, not the wise. The implication is that an
individual will not benefit by hearing that which he or she is unable
to comprehend, and that what is said reveals varying depths of truth
according to the varying capacities of individual minds. If we under-
stand that even great sages, who are speakers of truth, must use
discrimination in what they say, then we have a clue to what is said
and written about free will, and we can ourselves begin to discrimi-
nate in respect to what we hear and read about free will.
Baba has said that not a leaf falls except by the will of God. He has
also said that truth-seekers must work very hard; they must use
every effort to work their way upstream to the source. And, further,
he has said that truth in its entirety can be realized in an instant —
three statements in apparent contradiction. He has said that he looks
after and arranges every aspect of a devotee's life, which certainly
implies there can be a basis for our life other than that of our
individual free will. And then, in almost the next breath, Baba has
said that a person is free to go his own way and do as he or she
wishes. Upon being asked to explain the apparent contradiction,
Baba agreed that the statements do seem to be different and do
appear to clash, but that each statement was made in respect to a
particular situation. Where a person is fully surrendered to God,
Baba acts in the mode of Divine Mother, caring for and guarding
that devotee, doing more for the devotee than the devotee could ever
imagine to ask for. But, if a person chooses to follow ego desire,
then such a person is left to work out his or her destiny.
Here Baba is saying that if we surrender to God's will, happiness
will be gained and nothing lost, but if our interest and our desire are
turned to worldly life, we are then using individual free will and must
live by it and accept the responsibility.
The questions then arise, how is free will exercised and when is a
particular action a free will action? Free will cannot be for the body,
because we manipulate the body as an instrument or vehicle which is
used by us. Ourselves as emotion, mind, and intelligence appear to
exercise some free will, but we can observe that these faculties are
modified by an infinite variety of influences ranging from the
powerful rays of the sun and distant planets to inner tend-