144 MY BABA AND I
encies and predilections as well as to the demands of work and 
family. It is difficult to see how we could isolate ourselves from all 
external and internal influences and act according to pure free will; 
for "free will" subject to influence cannot be "free." Nevertheless, 
free will is a fact at some level of our consciousness, for Baba has 
quite clearly said so and has further pointed out that, if there were 
no free will, we could not gain release from the endless turning of 
the wheel of deed and consequence. To solve the puzzle of which 
level or aspect of consciousness enjoys free will, it appears that we 
will need to put aside every aspect of ourselves which could be 
moved by any influence or duress either from our own faculties and 
tendencies or from the world outside our skin. It appears that 
inquiry about free will brings us back to the fundamental question 
facing us at every turn, which is, "Who am 'I'?"
Until we realize that which we truly are, we can never be certain as 
to the freedom or slavery of any particular action. We may wonder 
beforehand about free will and we may speculate afterwards about it, 
but the fact is that we decide and then act, or we act spontaneously, 
or in one way or another are forced to act. Somehow or other the 
action takes place. If we are content with the action and what seems 
to be its consequence, we don't worry about it. But if we are not 
content, the question of free will arises. Free will may or may not 
have prevailed. The myriad conflicting influences bearing upon us 
may have been at a point of balance for an instant and free will may 
have been the final determinant at that point of balance. At our 
present stage of limited awareness, we can only speculate.
In an April, 1977, message to American Sai devotees, Baba said:
Nothing is wrong with you — 'Where there is a will there 
is a way' is eminently true. At first the will is your own 
which has to be strengthened by the thought of GOD until 
you convert it into the almighty will of GOD. You seem 
to be playing a particular game which you do not really 
desire to throw up. You can change the game if you will. 
You are not weak and helpless. Every strength and power 
is within you. GOD-Vision is yours that very instant 
when you will it with concentration. Why don't you? 
Simply because you do not choose to. Sai is not mocking. 
He is perfectly earnest and is giving