BABA'S TEACHINGS 145
expression from the truths gathered from the depths of his 
experience. Trust in and submission to the supreme will 
in all circumstances means the vision of truth, vision of 
the root principle of all creation. 'If GOD wills' means 
only if you assert your own all-powerful will. The 
solution is therefore to awaken the inherent power and 
splendor of your soul. Do it. You are verily the immortal 
Truth; the great, deathless and changeless Reality. Be 
victory ever yours.
With Blessings,
In the above quoted message, Baba says, "You can change the game if 
you will." And he continues, "'If God wills' means only if you assert 
your own all-powerful will." This certainly implies the absence of two 
separate wills. What is the "game" which Baba refers to? What could 
the "game" be but the game of apparent separateness?
When we are engaged in the game of separateness we say "will" is "
ours." When we realize that the "game," while jolly at times, should 
not continue for ever and ever, we recollect our Truth, that only 
Divine Will exists.
In a recent conversation with Baba (1984), I said, "One has the free 
will to choose to turn to God or to be fully involved with the world. 
But on the other hand, when Baba looks at a person, at one glance he 
sees the past, present, and future of that person, so how could there 
be free will?"
Baba replied, "From that viewpoint, from the Divine, there is no 
free will, for all is God. But from the ego viewpoint of the indi-
vidual there is free will. There is general law, and then the individ-
ual and society. The individual acts in society according to his free 
will, but all conform to the general law. The individual must act, 
and his action is a function of his mind. There are thoughts. 
Thoughts are seeds. They sprout and become actions. The actions 
then appear to be free will to the concerned individual. Everyone 
has been given skills and talents such as intelligence, reason, 
energy, and they must be put into life action."
One could wish that Baba had continued his explanation, and I will 
try to continue the topic with Baba at the next opportunity.