146 MY BABA AND I
But from what was said, it seems fairly clear that "general law" (
God's Will) is always the underlying fact, the roots of the tree of 
life, so to speak, the seed which sprouts and grows. And it seems 
fairly clear also, that as the individual acts, he feels and thinks he is 
using his individual will. He thus takes the attitude that he is the 
doer of the action, and later on he experiences the consequence of 
his action — all of which would need to be in conformity to 
general law (God's Will). From what Baba says, action is 
inevitable and accompanying the action can be either the thought 
that the action is prompted by one's separate individual will or the 
thought that one is surrendered to God and there is only His Will. 
It must also be that a shift away from the self-idea is in keeping 
with general law and occurs when one is "ripe" for it, just as a fruit 
will naturally ripen or fail to ripen according to the balance of 
nature. Similes are limited in their validity and in this simile of the 
unripe fruit, very happily for us, Baba has said, that while man 
may fall again and again, there is no such thing as failure, and 
Divinity will inevitably be realized.
It is not contrary to "God's Law" (God's Will) that a particular 
individual may suddenly have clear vision and see things "as they 
are." Baba has said this is always possible. To see with clarity, that 
everything we are doing is being prompted by God, is suddenly to 
be free from all worry and anxiety. Then there is no sorrow, no 
disappointment, no fear of any kind, for then all is God. He is 
playing every role and whatever happens can be accepted as His 
Will, as the way that He, the consummate Actor, is developing the 
destiny of the character being portrayed. Baba advises, "Let God 
work through you and there will be no more duty. Let God shine 
forth. Let God show Himself. Eat God, drink God, breathe God, 
realize the truth and the other things will take care of themselves."
And, why not at once step down from our ego-throne, continue to 
act with the full force of our intelligence and energy, but attribute 
everything to God? Where will be the loss? Action will continue — 
no doubt of it. The only loss will be the happy loss of worry, fear, 
anxiety, and sorrow. All is God. Our human role is a role played by 
God, just as the Avathar is another role. Why not shake loose from 
the entire burden of our life-long ideas and offer the whole bundle 
of ideas and concepts to God — retire for awhile, make a trial 
acknowledgement that God is the Actor. There is no