BABA'S TEACHINGS 149
the mode of human life, on turning the attention of people from the 
false to the true, and in giving joy and delight to his devotees.
In service to school children, Sri Sathya Sai Baba has brought the 
government of India to adopt his program of moral and spiritual 
education. It is now a part of the educational process throughout 
the nation. From all parts of India, teachers are sent to Baba's 
university in Puttaparthi for training in how to inculcate moral 
and spiritual values into the education of school children. This 
program is now spreading beyond the borders of India under the 
name of Education in Human Values.
Baba's service to the people of India includes the establishment of 
trade schools so that poor people may learn how to earn a living in 
India's changing society. He also builds wedding pandals so that 
the sons and daughters of the poor may be married there, cost-free, 
without the families going into life-long debt. Throughout India, 
in city and country, Baba's devotees, those who are physicians, 
surgeons, and eye specialists hold free clinics for the poor, for 
those who are never able to pay doctors' fees. To serve people in 
the rural villages, there are literally thousands of Baba's service 
organizations throughout India whose devotee members work 
strenuously to improve the circumstances and the lives of the 
village people, and who quickly move into heroic and selfless ac-
tion wherever people become victims of such disasters as famine, 
tidal waves, earthquakes, tornadoes, and floods.
Space need not be taken to enumerate all the far-reaching programs 
of Baba's service activities. Suffice it to say that he, himself, provides 
the perfect example when he stipulates that service to those in need is 
a basic requirement for spiritual life in this world.
While he stipulates loving service to the unfortunate, yet he firmly 
tells us that God is quite able to look after His world and that really, 
our service is to ourselves.
Service to others is to ourselves because it opens the way for love 
in our lives and because it directly makes our lives joyful. Further, 
if even this is not enough to persuade us of the importance of 
service to the unfortunate as a necessary step in spiritual life, Baba 
points out that for Self-Realization, our ego must bow in humility at 
the feet of the inner Divinity and surrender to Him its present 
dominant role in our life. For this, to deflate the ego, nothing equals 
humble service to the weaker members of society,