152 MY BABA AND 1
and can know the truth of the matter. He warns that we should not
make the same mistake as the dog.
Baba has pointed out that we seem to believe that happiness is in
possessions. If this belief were to be correct and if happiness were
really in objects, then more happiness could be ours with more
things and less with fewer things. With one part of our mind we
believe this so strongly that we constantly strive to add to our
possessions. Yet at one and the same time our intelligence observes
that people who have acquired the most are not the happiest and
that people who must do with very little can nevertheless be happy.
Baba explains the puzzle in this way. When our desire is satisfied
by gaining what is desired, the mind becomes peaceful for the time
being, and the bliss of the ever-blissful Self is reflected in the ob-
ject or circumstance which is being experienced. Before long, how-
ever, new desires arise, the mind becomes agitated and the bliss of
the Self is clouded over.
A doubt may be expressed, how could the eternally present and real
bliss of the Self be hidden by an agitation of the mind? The answer
is, we commonly experience that something insubstantial can
distort or totally hide the truth — transient clouds can hide the
blazing sun; a lie can convince people of untruth, etc., etc.
As long as we continue to feel happiness by incessantly securing
new things and new experiences, we survive and live from day to
day without too much bother. But if we are able to appreciate the
extraordinary danger of this way of living, we will surely step aside
for a moment and consider what we are doing and the result. What
we are doing is to ensure rebirth, and the result is a limitation and a
continuing misery and anxiety which is always ready to take over
our life. If we are not actually experiencing limitation, misery, and
anxiety at the moment, we can observe the lives of others.
Depending upon pleasant sensations for happiness, they become
attached to that which gives rise to pleasant sensations. Attachment
brings fear and anxiety, and deprivation brings misery. They would
be indeed wise to step away from the vicious circle of attachment,
pleasure, and misery. There is a way to break out and be free,
blissful, and peaceful. In his divine teachings, our divine Baba
shows us the way.
Baba has pointed out to us, "All our pleasures and pains arise from
the contact of the senses with pleasure-giving or pain-