BABA'S TEACHINGS 153
producing objects, thus causing us to desire one and hate the other. 
But if we feel neither attraction nor repulsion for sense objects, and 
allow them to come as a matter of course, they cannot produce 
pleasant or painful sensations."
Consider for the moment the wisdom of the illumined sage, 
Astavakra, the guru of King Janaka, "He who realizes that it is care 
for objects — and nothing else — that breeds misery in this world 
becomes free from it and is happy, peaceful, and everywhere rid of 
desires. It is desire that binds us to the world and makes us think it 
real, and this subjects us to the rounds of birth and rebirths. The 
moment we are free of desire, the reality of the world will vanish 
and there will be no further reincarnation. It is not sense objects 
themselves that cause misery, it is one's identification with them 
and attachment to them. Once free from identification and 
attachment, one need not shun the world."
The divine Baba, in his love for us, his children, tells us that he 
has come to awaken us to our inner joy, to our blissful immortal 
Reality which is not dependent upon anything or upon any cir-
cumstance. He declares, "I have come to give you the key to the 
treasure of bliss, to tell you how to tap that spring, for you have 
forgotten the way of blessedness. Very few of you desire to get 
from me the thing I have come to give you, namely Liberation it-
self. I am the embodiment of bliss. Come, take bliss from me, 
dwell in that bliss and be peaceful."
The Avathar is without illusion and speaks the eternal verities. 
Spiritual truth is that which always was and always will be, un-
changed and unchangeable. Baba has come to show us where true 
happiness lies. He tells us that we should be cautious in seeking 
happiness in the promised treasures of the material world, and we 
should listen attentively when he tells us that happiness — divine 
bliss — is found in our divine inner nature, not in the outward things 
of the world.