BABA'S TEACHINGS 155
This further statement by Baba has a clear significance for the writer, 
although another Sai devotee may take a different meaning. We live 
in a particular body, in a particular environment,in a particular 
society on Planet Earth, in a Universe which is part of a Cosmos, and 
these, in total, powerfully affect us. These influences are common to 
us and thus, by and large, we perceive and experience a common 
world and can talk to each other about it. However, this common 
world is not the only world experienced by us, nor is it the most 
important world to us. We know from experience and observation 
that each of us lives in a private world of his own which can be a 
literal hell for a particular person, or a more or less pleasant 
experience for another person. We may become aware of the private 
world of another person, but it does not thereby become our world. 
We are aware, for instance, that Baba's world is pure Being-
Consciousness-Bliss, but we do not thereby share his world — we 
remain in ours.
Our private world is created by what we think and do and feel in 
response to events and circumstances which become known to us 
through physical impact or mental awareness. That is, we react to 
whatever in either subtle or gross form, comes to our knowledge by 
some means or other. Typically, our reaction is to desire, or at least 
tolerate, that which is agreeable to us and to resist that which we find 
to be painful or disagreeable. Both desire and resistance lead to 
action, and action brings about further reaction, which in turn 
contributes to our experience. In this way, each of us creates a private 
world which is joyful, indifferent, or miserable according to our 
response to knowledge and experience and to the inevitable reactions 
or consequences which follow.
Our private world, which is the world of our happiness or our misery, 
is clearly described by Baba in his statement as above quoted. He 
tells us that we are fond of living on the basis of satisfying desires. 
That is, most of us are living, moment by moment, in a world which 
we have built around us by the action of satisfying desires. We have 
a desire — a desire to resist or a desire to gain, and this desire is the "
lumber" with which we build our dwelling, with which we build a 
private world in which we live out our life. Baba points out that for a 
period of time, briefly or longer, we are happy in the satisfaction of 
desires, but sooner or later our desires, which are egotistic, come into 
conflict with the movement of life,