156 MY BABA AND I
and this conflict inevitably brings about frustration and misery. We 
then tend to compare our private world of misery with another 
person's private world which appears to be better, and this adds to 
our misery, discontent, and rebellion.
Baba is telling us a great secret of life, about a possibility for 
happiness which few of us will have considered prior to this time. 
He is telling us that we created our private world and that we have 
the power and the ability to discontinue the maintenance of our 
private world by destroying its cause and source, and thereby we 
can know and live in the world of divine bliss which totally sur-
rounds us, which totally surrounds our isolated private world. He 
tells us that our private world is created and maintained by choos-
ing to live in a world of desire-satisfaction.
Baba's statement has an extraordinary meaning and, if carefully 
considered, is bound to have a major impact on us. Here, in our life, 
day by day, year upon year, we are creating a special world for 
ourselves which arises from and is based upon the satisfaction of 
desires. But Baba tells us there is a life-mode, a world of 
experience, an art of living entirely different from and apart from 
the sensual world which we create for ourselves and sustain for 
ourselves by living on the basis of the satisfaction of desires. Baba 
is inviting us to step out of that sensual life-frame, that desire 
world, into an entirely different world whose sign or mark is the 
renunciation of craving and whose reality is a state of freedom from 
the misery and bondage which follow us as long as we cling to a 
life of desire and the satisfaction of desire. To the writer, at least, 
this is the meaning of Baba's Ceiling on Desires program.
Astavakra, the God-Realized guru of King Janaka, explained, "Our 
past actions have not given us any lasting happiness. Why should 
we then continue these worldly actions (i.e. actions to satisfy 
desires) which spring from ignorance and cause bondage and 
misery?"
Sage Astavakra of ancient days and Sri Sathya Sai Baba, the 
embodiment of the Indivisible Supreme Absolute, tell us the same 
truth. There is no contradiction when speaking of the eternal ever-
constant Truth.
To step out of the peculiar or particular life-frame which we 
ourselves are creating and sustaining, whose mark is action to 
satisfy desires, into an entirely different life, whose mark will be