BABA'S TEACHINGS 157
renunciation of craving is to face the unknown. We are bound to 
wonder what our life will be like if we resolve to make this change 
and do make this change. Baba provides a hint. He says, "The mind 
will set itself right as soon as you give up all concern with the past 
and future and live entirely in the now."
This statement by Baba clearly implies that living entirely in the 
now, replaces entirely living in the future. Hence, in the new way 
of life suggested by Baba there is no looking towards the future for 
desire satisfaction. If we gather the strength of our will and 
resolutely refuse to follow a desire-thought to create a circum-
stance embodying desire satisfaction, we will most certainly find 
out the truth of the matter for ourselves. Baba further encourages 
us to gather our strength and make this decision. He says, "Self-
negation or self-denial through self-control creates resistances for 
the creative energy of the body, mind, and intellect to exercise 
against, to grow in strength and glory so as to know and help 
Brahma, the Universal Creative Energy, in fulfilling the Divine 
Purpose."
Here Baba is telling us that to change our life by the renunciation of 
craving has a glory far beyond its personal benefit, that by ceasing to 
base our life on the satisfaction of desires we help Brahma (Baba) in 
His mission as the Divine Avathar.
We do have our life as it is now, but everyone has the desire to 
continue to be happy or know a deeper happiness. Even a person 
who loves misery, or even a criminal believe they are choosing 
ways which will bring happiness to them. Were we to be told that 
by opening a door and stepping into another room we would find 
bliss, an ever-constant, ever-new, ever-fresh delight moment to 
moment, forever and ever, many of us, perhaps most of us, would 
like to know the whereabouts of the room and how to open the 
door. Baba tells us where the room is and how to open the door. 
The "room" is not located either within our skin or outside our skin. 
It is located in the subtle levels of our being. It is sometimes called 
"the inside" or "the heart." To locate it, we need to reduce our 
fascination with the phenomenal world by noticing the defects in 
the objects of our desires, and by a willingness to admit, that when 
we secure an object of desire, our happiness is neither perfect nor 
permanent. This is called "detachment." Having located the room, 
the door must be opened. Baba tells us that the door