158 MY BABA AND I
will of itself open for us if we realize that only God can bestow 
perfect happiness, and thus the wise move would be to possess 
Him. This can be done by desiring Him only, by turning every 
desire-thought to God instead. That is, desire God only, think God, 
see God, hear God, taste God, feel God, desire only God. Baba 
assures us that in this way the door to bliss will open quite easily.
If we have a mind to do as Baba suggests, we can start imme-
diately by loving God, the ever-new source of happiness and bliss, 
and by interrupting the pattern of our desire-thoughts by refusing to 
maintain our private desire-world. Like everything new to us, it 
takes practice to gain control, but we have the power and the abil-
ity, and if we think we do not, God will provide us with His power 
if we but call on Him. When a desire-thought arises in our con-
sciousness, we observe it — "Yes, there is this desire, now it is here 
and known to me." That is all. We observe the desire-thought, but 
we do not follow it into action. That is Baba's advice. Do not follow 
the desire into action. Instead, turn the desire to God and know that 
He is the happiness we really want.
If we are really intent on realizing the Truth of our own life, we 
must seriously consider what Baba says, dive deep into its meaning 
and then use every ounce of strength and energy to apply Baba's 
teachings to our daily lives.
In a subtle move such as the resolve to end the private world we 
have known up to this moment, a delicate touch is needed. We will 
need to fully use our God-given faculties of intelligence and 
discrimination. We wish to discontinue the private world we have 
created by the satisfaction of desires, but there is another aspect of 
desire which we will need to understand. For example, a desire to 
help another person will arise. And we need food, clothes, shelter, 
and health — these needs will be expressed as desires. Baba has 
given us a guideline. He says to examine a desire-thought before 
following it into action. If intelligence, discrimination, and con-
science advise that the desire is neither harmful to oneself nor to 
another person, then go ahead. Obviously, intelligence and dis-
crimination must be both acute and honest, otherwise we will 
deceive ourselves and continue to maintain the limitations of a 
private world constructed out of the satisfaction of desires. This is 
the meaning of the title, "A Ceiling on Desires," as contrasted to "a 
suppression of all desires."