160 MY BABA AND I
Self-inquiry, the spiritual discipline which realizes that temporary 
and partial satisfaction plus much suffering is the fruit gathered in a 
life dedicated to experiencing the outer world and, having seen this, 
turns inward instead to find the basis of oneself and the world, is 
cancelled out when one turns away from self-observation to enjoy 
the deceptive pleasures of finding fault with others. The practice of 
finding fault with others, no matter the provocation and the self-
righteous satisfaction temporarily experienced, is a heavy price to 
pay for the loss of sincere, dedicated, and continuous self-inquiry. 
Baba tells us that it is a desperate blow to Liberation, Self-
Realization, God-Realization, (all have the same meaning) if we 
exchange a commitment to Self-Inquiry for the dubious satisfaction 
of finding fault with others. Let us learn through our own 
observation of our own mistakes, and let others learn likewise 
through their own faults. Neither of the two learn-ings are aided by 
the practice of finding fault with others. Survival of ourselves as 
spiritual aspirants demands that we find a way of living in society 
which is not based on the practice of finding fault with others.
The second vital spring of life which is cut off by finding fault with 
others is the confident assertion of one's own true identity as the 
Divine. Sages of ancient times have declared to their students that 
as one thinks, so one is; that where one's thoughts are, there 
consciousness resides. The Avathar of the Age, our beloved Baba 
has told us this truth of life in even stronger terms. He tells us to 
never believe that we are human beings who must rise to Godhead, 
for, in fact, we are God playing temporary roles as human beings, 
and eventually we will merge again into the Divine, our Source and 
our Reality. Baba tells us to keep always in mind that we are 
Divine, and during a discourse delivered at a recent Birthday cele-
bration held by his devotees in Prasanthi Nilayam, Baba gave five 
statements of fact which he advised we never forget and always 
keep repeating in our minds. They are quoted in other pages of this 
book, and they center around the declaration that "I am not dif-
ferent from God; I am the Indivisible Supreme Absolute — I am 
Sath-Chith-Ananda (Being, Consciousness, Bliss)."
Baba tells us to act in Divinity, in noble ways and not in mean, 
petty ways. He warns us that in following the practice of finding 
fault with others we are not acting in accordance with our