BABA'S TEACHINGS 163
craving and ignorance and that we have the innate power to know 
our truth and thus be free of misery now and forever. Baba tells us 
that today, in the blessed lifetime of the Avathar, we need not 
adopt the life-style of a recluse, that release from misery and the 
realization of innate bliss may come about in all its fullness even 
while living a family life in the midst of society.
Baba tells us there are differences in the lives of individuals because 
of two reasons. The first reason is that each person is unique and 
unlike any other person, even though he or she may be in ignorance 
of it, may copy others, and may fail to express that uniqueness. The 
second reason why one person's life is unlike that of another person 
is because of action and reaction. Baba says that every action is 
followed by a reaction and that the consequence of action is the 
dominant cause of an individual's own unique life experience. It is 
the present consequences of past actions which account for that 
apparent unfairness in life about which we tend to protest. We learn 
from Baba, as well as from the sages of ancient times, that the 
consequence of a present action may be immediate, but that major 
events which occur in our lives have their roots in the distant past. 
Events are likened to the fruit of a tree; a seed takes time to sprout, 
grow, mature, and distribute its fruit. It is this aspect of the universal 
energy which brings about the birth, life, and death of an individual. 
So long as this process of nature continues — so long will we be 
bound to the world of diverse experiences with its alternating modes 
of happiness and misery. Many people are content with the way of 
nature, but not every one of us is content. When we observe what is 
happening, questions occur to us, "Is it inevitable? Are we forever 
bound to the consequences of our actions? Can one be free of all 
bindings?" Then the search is on, and if it is our good fortune, we 
encounter the divine teachings of the divine Baba. He says, in effect, 
"Yes, the consequences of your action do indeed bind you; even 
breathing has a result. But there is a way to be free."
Because of his love and compassion for us, Baba reveals the 
priceless secret upon which our birth, life, and death are hinged. 
He reveals to us the divine secret of how to be with life yet not be 
bound by the consequences of action. Were the existence of this 
secret known, but the secret not revealed, the entire sum of the 
world's gold and precious gems would fall short of being an ade-
quate price to pay for this knowledge.