164 MY BABA AND I
Consider that even breathing, without which our life would not 
continue, is an action and that reaction must follow. And for us to 
be free, to act with unmodified spontaneous delight each and every 
new instant, our action must cease to be limited and constrained by 
prior action. Action and reaction, cause and its result, desire and its 
consequence create the web which is our own unique world of 
alternating satisfaction and dissatisfaction. So long as action and 
reaction weave their web, we are prisoners with no way of escape. 
Now comes the divine Baba to show us a secret way. He tells us 
that we, his devotees, may be free to think, talk, and act in purity 
every moment, not contaminated by the past; that the way of purity 
for mind and heart can now be our way, and that free from the 
consequences of action we may be of pure love and know ourselves 
to be one with the Lord, who is himself love only.
The infinitely valuable secret which Baba now reveals to us is, "
The fruit of action belongs to the actor, therefore renounce the fruit! 
Act, but renounce the fruit of action; dedicate every action to God 
and renounce all desire for its fruit; call upon God to be the doer of 
action, and totally and fully, without recourse, renounce every 
vestige of attachment to the fruit of action!"
To eyes not refined by knowledge and practice, a diamond may 
appear to be one stone among others. Unless we are vitally in-
terested, the infinitely precious secret of how to escape from all 
bindings may appear to be just a few words strung together in 
phrases and sentences. But if we are alert and concerned, from the 
day we learn of this secret from our divine Baba, our lives will 
never again be the same. He, the infinite depth of the Absolute, 
having taken form so that our eyes and minds may be aware, tells 
us that he, as the infinite power and energy of the manifest Ab-
solute, will take upon himself the fruit of our action if we dedicate 
all action to him, and that we may thus escape from the binding 
web of action and consequence and know freedom. An illustration 
of this, perhaps of minor significance, yet from actual daily life, is 
the Bombay devotee whose life was in torment because of alco-
holism. His business was failing, his family was breaking apart, and 
his health was weakening. He approached Baba, clasped Baba's 
feet,and prayed for Baba to save him. He explained his plight and 
confessed, that despite the desperate circumstances, he was totally 
unable to resist his craving for liquor. Baba's reply was