BABA'S TEACHINGS 165
to this effect, "Do not worry. You need not stop drinking. I ask 
only that you do one thing. As you take each drink, dedicate it to 
me." As may be surmised, in this divine circumstance, the devotee'
s craving for liquor diminished and before long he was free of it. 
He had dedicated his action to Baba. Baba was then the actor and, 
so to speak, chewed up the consequence of the action.
How do we dedicate our actions to Baba? Or to that particular 
name and form of the Divine which is most dear to us? What we 
are about to do is subjective — not in the ordinary course of 
objective experience. Faith is a prerequisite, but faith in Baba we 
already have, for otherwise we would pay no attention. In the light 
of faith now comes practice. Each morning we speak to Baba (or 
our own dearest form of the Divine) and ask him to accept the 
result of our action this day. Each separate action we dedicate to 
Baba. For example, the man arrives at his work and, within his 
mind, he addresses Baba, "Lord, my destiny is to be active and I 
will do my duty now, but it is you, the divine consciousness within, 
who is the real doer. Please take the fruit of my action." For the 
woman in the house, she, for example, could say to Baba, "Lord, I 
am sweeping the floor of this home to make it sweet and clean for 
you who are my constant companion and who stands beside me as 
I go about this work."
To dedicate the fruit of action to God, who may be intangible to 
our eyes and touch, is new to us, but this new way will not be 
impossible for us since we are already experienced in giving up the 
fruit of action; we know how to do it. I doubt if there is even one 
of us who has not acted for the benefit of another, who has not 
dedicated the fruit of his action to someone other than himself. For 
example, the endless actions in which mother engages, not for her 
benefit, but for the benefit of her family. And men have done much 
for the benefit of true friends, even to giving up life itself. And, 
since his devotees love Baba very much indeed, it will not be 
difficult, in love for him, to dedicate all actions to him.
Baba assures us that if we look to the Divine, to Him fully 
manifest in the Sai form and truly resident in our hearts, He will 
accept our actions and their consequences and that from this 
moment onward we may be carefree and happy. This is the price-
less secret of human life revealed to us now by the divine Baba.