BABA'S TEACHINGS 167
Baba points out that the body itself is not a prison and he carefully 
explains this. He tells us that it is we, ourselves, who make the body 
into a prison, and this comes about because we have accepted that our 
body is our very self. The people in one's life automatically accept 
that one's body is oneself, and, we, also, accept it automatically. 
Every pain felt and every pleasure felt confirms that the body is "me." 
Yet, Baba, and the great sages of all ages tell us it is not so. Baba 
comments, "When you say this is my body, my mind, my intelligence, 
and so on, it implies that you are different from the body, the mind, 
the intelligence, etc. You are in the body, in the mind and elsewhere, 
but they are not in you. They belong to you, but they are not the same 
as you. They are you, but you are not they."
This puzzle, the puzzle that we know the body as our own very self (
yet sages declare the body to be non-self) requires some careful 
consideration. About this, the sage Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj said to a 
devotee, "Is it not important to you to know whether you are a mere 
body or something else? Or maybe nothing at all? Don't you see that 
all your problems — food, clothing, shelter, family, friends, name, 
fame, security, survival — all these lose their meaning the moment 
you realize that you may not be a mere body?"
The great saint, Ramana Maharshi, explained the error of body-
identify to Paul Brunton, the English writer:
How does the desire for eternal life arise? Because the 
present state is unbearable. Why? Because it is not your 
real nature. Had it been your real nature, there would be 
no desire to agitate you . . . Consider what happens 
when a stone is thrown up. It leaves its source, is 
projected up, tries to come down and is always in mo-
tion until it regains its source where it is at rest . . . 
Where there is a sense of separateness from the source, 
there is agitation and movement until the sense of 
separateness is lost. So it is with yourself. Now that you 
identify yourself with the body, you think that you are 
separate . . . To identify oneself with the body and yet 
to seek happiness, is like attempting to ford a river on 
the back of an alligator . . . To continue in that state 
will only kept one in an endless tangle and there will be 
no peace . . . The Self remains ever, even after the