168 MY BABA AND I
body perishes. The discontent is due to the wrong identity 
of the Eternal Self with the perishable body.
Surely we can "see" some distinction between body and ourselves. 
For instance, an eye or a leg may be lost in an accident. Yet "we" 
do not become partial thereby. Even a one-time insight is enough 
to undo the illusion that body and self are one and the same at all 
times. About identification with the body, Baba has this to say, "
What is your shadow? Is it not something separate from you? Does 
its length or clarity or career affect you in any way? Understand 
that the same is the relationship between the body and yourself."
What Baba says is clear. From the viewpoint of "I," the Self-Reality; 
one is body, mind, intelligence, and everything else as well, 
including the void of everything. But to believe that the body is one's 
Self-Reality is an error, for one's body will change, deteriorate, and 
eventually perish, whereas the Self-Reality never changes. If we are 
unable to appreciate this distinction, we are bound to make many 
painful mistakes, all founded on the erroneous concept that our body 
is our very self. Baba asks, "Why does man worry? Body identity. 
How did he acquire the body? By past activites. What caused them? 
By the twin pulls of love and hate. How did they originate? They 
were born out of entanglement in the opposites. Why did man get 
snared in the opposites? By ignoring the Truth, the One."
Let us feel our way into it. We notice so many changes in our-
selves as body. But is there not one thing which is always present, 
even during changes? If we are watchful, will we not notice that all 
these changes are observed by "me" and are known to "me"? Just "
see" it, that is all. We will then know directly that there is some 
point in us which is apart from the changing body and able to 
observe the changing body. That insight is irrevocable. Now the 
spiritual journey is really begun, and although we may fall away for 
a time, we will never be the same again.
In this way, by watching — compassionately and quietly, we may 
continue to live in the world and yet achieve that goal for which 
anchorites and yogis labor so strenuously and often painfully. Now 
we will have broken the bondage of wrong body-idea. Now we are 
free to explore to infinity the divine teachings of our divine Baba 
and be with him always, all the way.