170 MY BABA AND I
of Baba's two principles of seva as described in the first two para-
graphs. Baba has said many times that one's inner conscience is the 
voice of God within us.
Baba has taken form as a blessing to all beings on this planet Earth 
— and perhaps beyond. He, himself, is a pure flame of selfless 
service — everything is done for others, and he does nothing for 
himself. He tells us, "He who selflessly renders seva, sweetened 
with prema, to my creatures, he who sees me in everyone and in 
everything, he who remembers me at every moment is the yogee 
nearest to me."
About himself, Baba tells us, "The totality of Divine Energy has 
come as Sathya Sai unto humanity to wake up the slumbering 
Divinity of every human being. I will not forsake you. I have come 
to help, to accompany, and to carry you. I can never forsake you. I 
will never fail in my duty to my children; but I shall be very grate-
ful to each child of mine who helps in my task." In selfless seva to 
others, not only are we able to worship the Divine and serve Him 
directly, but, wonder of wonders, the Lord will be grateful to His 
devotee who helps in His task.
A doubt may arise that on the spiritual path the world will lose its 
dominance in our life; yet through seva we are urged to be in contact 
with the world even more intimately than ever. Baba comments on 
this, "One must be unattached to the whirling worldliness of the 
world, but he should not detach himself or deviate from the discharge 
of his duties to the world as a component thereof."
In the above quotation, Baba warns us to take care that selfishness 
does not masquerade as yogic solitude. He expands his warning, "
Selfishness is the greatest negative tendency in human beings. 
Selfishness distracts the mind, disturbs the equilibrium, distracts 
perception and endangers progressive evolution. The six essential 
weaknesses — lust, anger, avarice, attachment, pride, and jealousy 
are only consequences of selfishness."
As we continue our study of the divine teachings of the divine 
Baba, we cannot but note and be impressed with the tremendous 
value given to service to others. This is clear in the following state-
ment from Baba, "When a devotee seeks with humility and purity 
to give seva and prema to my creatures who are in need of such 
selfless service and sublime love; when he considers all creatures as 
my children, as his beloved brothers and sisters, as the blessed