BABA'S TEACHINGS 173
of being happy always, then Divine Vision will intensify that hap-
piness each time we acknowledge the Lord and tell Him that we love 
Him. Baba has said, "Love God without reserve. To love God 
destroys all the barriers to love. The faulty personalities so difficult 
to love are by-passed and transcended."
The practice of Divine Vision is secret to ourselves and no other 
person can observe us or know of our practice. The individual in 
whose heart we salute the ever-loving divine Lord, is unknowing 
of our action, and we in no way interfere with him or her. If the 
person is a sister, we treat her as is our custom. If the person is a 
cultured diplomat, a beggar on the street, a taxi driver, or an 
employee, we continue to treat that person conventionally accord-
ing to their status and actions. Divine vision is between God and 
ourselves and is not the business of any person, beloved family 
member, or stranger. It is a secret of our hearts and let it remain so.
Upon first hearing of the practice of Divine Vision, one may 
exclaim, "But some people are so vicious and horrible, or so ob-
noxious and irritating that I cannot bear to even look at them much 
less say, 'I love you." The point of the practice is to look right 
through the obnoxious personality, or deformed body or mind, and 
pay no attention to it. We are looking only at the constant divine 
Reality which is the essence of every person. Baba explains the 
situation by this simile: Two houses are opposite to each other on 
the same street and are occupied by two families who are enemies. 
It so happens that above the door of each house there is fastened a 
picture of Sri Sathya Sai. The two families may hurl insults or 
even rocks at each other, in anger and hatred of each other, but 
neither family is angry at Baba, even though his picture is fastened 
above the door of the enemy's house. In like fashion, we may be 
unable to control a negative emotion which may arise when we see 
a particular personality, but that is no reason to be angry at the 
Lord who is the constant Reality behind that personality.
The spiritual practice of Divine Vision is a blessing to the per-
sonality whose inner Divinity we worship, for God responds from the 
heart of that personality when we, His devotee, call upon Him; and 
the practice of Divine Vision will purify our minds and hearts and 
thus make us ready for illumination. Divine Vision can start the 
moment we know of it. It will give joy ever after if we continue with 
that spiritual practice.