BABA'S TEACHINGS 175
Sri Sathya Sai Baba tells us, "He who considers himself free is free 
indeed, and he who considers himself bound remains bound. Think 
yourself to be free, the eternal unlimited Consciousness-Bliss and 
you will be free and happy. Constantly think of yourself as the 
eternally free Self. Realize! You are ever free."
Why do we not accept this as soon as we are told this marvelous and 
extraordinary truth about ourselves? Baba says, "Do not be 
discouraged that you do not have the ability. As you feel, so you 
become. Feel you are Divine, feel that nothing is impossible for you. 
Feel that you are Divine, that you are good and Godly."
Who tells us that we are a limited human personality and that we 
need to adjust to the human state? We are told so by family, 
schools, T.V., friends — in fact everyone with whom we are usual-
ly in contact so tells us. And who tells us to not accept that we are 
merely a variant from the common denominator of the average 
man? We are told so by our Baba; he who knows the truth because 
he is the truth. About himself, Sri Sathya Sai says, "Divine energy 
has come as Sai to wake up the Divinity in everyone."
To devotees who ask, Baba advises, "Wake up my children! Wake 
up to the dawn of knowledge, wake up to your Divine Duties, wake 
up to your Divine Rights, and wake up to your Divine Reality."
One small match, if struck, contains the fire which can burn 
down imprisoning walls. Just one of Baba's teachings can be that 
match in one's life. Consider deeply — what if the truth is as 
Baba says it? To young children, he declares, "Listen, all ye chil-
dren of immortality! You, children of the eternal. You are not 
lumps of flesh. You are embodiments of the eternal. You are re-
positories of Bliss. Your hearts are shrines of the Divine. The 
whole of nature is your playground; all the things in it are your 
playthings. Regard yourselves as masters of the universe and not 
its bond-slaves."
We adults did not have Baba to guide us when we were children. 
We have been taught incorrect ideas from childhood, and are still 
holding to them. Why not discard all such ideas? Consider! Maybe 
Baba is telling us the greatest truth! What a tragedy if we refuse to 
let go of our past conditioning, and thus remain caught in a false 
life. The wonderful opportunity of this moment when Baba tells 
the truth to us may never be ours again. What can