CONVERSATIONS WITH BABA 187
SAI: Then let the Jewish people make a proposal to us and we will 
give consideration to it.
JH: Swami says that there is the duty of self-preservation. People 
wonder how far this goes. To save one's own life, should one kill the 
person who is attacking?
SAL To preserve one's body is an important duty. One may take 
whatever means are necessary for self-preservation. About the other 
part of your question: to kill the person attacking — the answer is "
yes," if that is the only way to preserve one's own life. But keep in 
mind that many alternate actions might be taken to avoid being 
killed. Only if every possibility is exhausted may one take the 
extreme measure of killing the attacker.
JH: Swami's discourse about people going to the Moon Loka and 
the Sun Loka created much confusion.
SAI: Sai has explained it before, and perhaps the people asking the 
question did not read. People may think there is a journey over a 
distance to the realm of Indra, the Moon, and the Sun. All such 
changes are within the person. If a person develops his life so that he 
has great physical force and strength, he is said to have centered his 
life in the Indra Loka. If he has developed his mind to such an extent 
that it is beyond the comprehension of an ordinary person, his life is 
said to be in the Moon Loka. And, if a man had developed in-
telligence to a maximum extent, his life is said to be in the Sun Loka.
JH: Another question that arises has to do with Swami's statement 
that, by virtuous actions in the past, a human birth is gained. In this 
context there must have been virtuous animal actions, but how can 
this be when the animal acts by instinct?
SAI: A good action is good whether accomplished by instinct or 
reason. Is not the shelter provided by a tree good for both animal 
and man? When a cow denies milk to its calf because the milk is 
taken by the herdsman, the result is beneficial for the human 
persons who drink the milk, and the benefit enjoyed is no less 
because the cow did not think, but is only being itself. And the dog 
in the house, does he not guard and care for the master, and love 
him too? A human guard must be paid, but the dog gives love and 
loyalty without concept of payment. There are endless examples 
throughout nature of good and virtuous action being fully 
effective, even though, by instinct, the animal or plant is only 
being true to. its own nature.