188 MY BABA AND I
Human life is not being depleted even though millions die and, in 
addition, there is a constant transition from humanity to the 
Divine. Instead of depletion, the human population is growing, 
and this new supply comes from the rock, the insect, the animal. 
Even science testifies that the rock decomposes and becomes the 
tree; the vegetation is eaten and becomes the animal; and the 
animal in its various aspects is consumed and becomes the human. 
It is a constant process of passing from one grade to another. The 
human birth is the final birth and, dependent on the virtue of the 
life, it ends in the Divine, or is reborn again.
JH: Is degrading possible? Is there a rebirth back to the animal?
SAI: The possibility is not denied, but it is only rarely that such a 
thing happens. The degrading of human life due to lack of virtue 
will normally result in rebirth as a lower grade human. The total 
process is always present. Table and wood are equally present. If 
attention is given to wood, table is not seen. If attention is given to 
table, wood is not seen. This cushion is not without thread, nor is 
the thread without cotton. How it is viewed is a matter of 
emphasis. Here I am now drawing three circles, the smaller within 
the larger. This middle one represents the Jiva (the individual "
soul"); the smaller circle, the body; and the largest, the Atma (the 
ultimate Self).
The smaller circle is what you think you are, the next one what 
others think you are, and the third is what you really are: the Atma. 
The smaller circle may expand and expand until it merges with the 
larger, the Atma.
JH: Swamiji, that is the present list of questions that have come up 
for which I did not have the answers.
SAI: It is good. It is important that the questions be asked. They are 
the questions that are presented to the many gurus, but Sai can give 
the correct answers.
December, 1978
SAI: Crime has become very bad in India. There is no safety.
JH: Swami, this is not particular to India. The same is true all
over the world. How will it all end?