CONVERSATIONS WITH BABA 191
presently in the ashram for an interview, and included a few addi-
tional persons, of whom I was one, fortunately indeed for me. 
Unhappily, I was unable to keep up with the rapid exchange of 
questions and answers and could not remember afterwards, largely, I 
think, because of my unfamiliarity with the subject matter. I did 
manage to take a few notes and believe it worthwhile to make them a 
part of the book.
Prior to the questions and answers, Baba made a few comments:
"The great scriptures of mankind came into being through sound, 
the word of God. This is fully true of the ancient Jewish religion. It 
was the word of God. Over the centuries, however, man has made 
changes in the Bible, and present misunderstandings are due to 
these man-made changes. In the early days there were differences 
between the Jews and the Christians, but they are not appropriate 
today. Today the standard should be the brotherhood of man, based 
on the divine love of God for all mankind. Each religion should 
follow that which is its own and not follow a path which belongs to 
others, but which is not its own. Follow your own tradition, but do 
not hate others. Be broad-minded, as are the followers of Sai.
"The Bible, the Koran, the Vedas, the Granth — all represent the 
same creation. All were following the voice of God. All arose from 
the whisper of God which, in the pure minds of the hearers, 
flowered into eight sounds, eight letters, and from this, all words 
evolved. The eight sounds were the vowels and consonants of 
language. The foundation of the Jewish religion is precisely the 
same as that of the Vedas. The breath of God, cognized by the pure 
attention of the ancient seers, was heard as eight sounds, and these 
sounds have been given names. (Baba here pronounced each of 
these eight primeval sounds, but I could not catch them with my 
pencil.)
"The Sai symbol of five religions represents the five major religions 
found in India. For the West, the Jewish Star may be added as a sixth 
representation on the Sai symbol."
Q: Was Jesus the Messiah of the Jews?
SAI: No. He did not represent the ancient Jewish tradition. He 
represented the factor of change.
Q: In the Bible it says that the Jews are God's chosen people.