CONVERSATIONS WITH BABA 193
SAI: The Government experts came to locate wells, but even though 
they went down 100 feet no water was found.
JH: Swamiji! I cannot understand how the Government does not 
come to Swami, touch his feet and ask him to run the country!
SAI: It is not that the Government is unaware of what Swami is 
doing. They do not think it would be good for Swami to be involved 
in politics. Nor does Swami wish that. His interest is with his 
devotees and with what he is now doing. If the Government should 
really know Swami's Reality and his power, they would declare him 
to be a ward of the Government, surround him with security and he 
would be unable to continue to see the devotees. It is not Swami's 
wish. With a move of his hand, Swami could have the entire world 
acknowledge him — but to what end? It would be spectacular only 
and would accomplish nothing of value.
MG: When will the whole world know about Swami?
SAI: Even now Sai is known in many countries of the world. This is 
entirely without precedent. Never before have so many known of the 
Avathar. In the time of Rama, he was known only in the city-state 
where he lived. And he was naturally venerated there because he was 
the ruler. Knowledge about Krishna was also very limited. In his 
earlier days, Krishna was known only in two small villages.
JH: Is the difference due to changes in communication, or to the 
will of the Avathar?
SAI: Rapid communication and transportation are largely 
responsible. In olden days to move from Puttaparthi to Whitefield (i.
e. about 120 miles) would be like a trip to a foreign continent. Now, 
Americans come here from the other side of the world in just a few 
hours time.
MG: Will the University be here?
SAI: No. In Puttaparthi only. This college and others will remain as 
colleges.
JH: Swami, may Mr. Kasturi publish Swami's talk to the Jews?
SAI: Why? I said words which were just heart-to-heart. JH: 
Is there enough milk from the Gokulum to provide the 
college?
SAI: Oh, yes. Enough also for the canteens and the residents in the 
compound. Some of the cows provide as much as 32 liters of milk a 
day.