196 MY BABA AND I
greed, envy, lust, hatred. These are not human qualities; they are 
animal qualities.
Unless Sai devotees are, at the very least, human persons free of 
animal qualities or characteristics, how can such devotees suggest 
spiritual life to others? Such suggestions will have no impact.
If devotees in general are not yet free of animal characteristics, 
there should be in each Sathya Sai Baba Center two or three 
members who live a life as true human beings.
The individual does not progress alone. He is not separate from 
Society, and he must do his bit to uplift the society. Therefore, the 
individual's work to free himself from animal characteristics and to 
live a spiritual life is not done for himself, but is done for all of 
God's creatures. The work of freeing the individual's nature from 
animal qualities is done, in love, for God, and done in His Name 
and with His help. Each member of the Sathya Sai Baba Center 
should work very hard to purify the quality of his life, and the goal 
should be to lead a perfect life, an ideal life; to be an ideal exemplar 
of the divine teachings of Bhagavan Sri Sathya Sai Baba.
The world will respond to the ideal life of a Sai devotee. The world 
is yearning for the ideal life and will, of its own accord, adopt such 
a life if it comes into view. They will respond, and they will follow 
such a life.
JH: Swami, does that mean that our Centers should now move 
beyond the task of working with Center members and tackle the 
world?
SAI: The Center members must carefully work to become truly 
human before they venture to instruct the world.
November 21, 1981
SAI: How do you like the pictures? (i.e. Portrait photo-
graphs for the college building to be dedicated on the 23rd).
RB: We were afraid they were too large.
SAI: They are not too large. Swami's picture will be the same size. 
Do you like the pictures?
JH: Bozzani looks like a movie star!
SAI: No, no. He is smiling, whereas Mrs. Bozzani is more serious. 
Come. Sit down.