204 MY BABA AND I
kill people of another religion, and they do it because their con-
science tells them it is right to do it.
SAI: It is not that way. When such things occur, it is because the 
individual has surrendered his judgment to someone else, or to an 
idea propagated by someone. If the person were to reject ideas and 
rely upon himself, his conscience, even though deeply buried, 
would be there to prompt the person; for Conscience is God, Resi-
dent in the person.
JH: Throughout the world, crime is growing rapidly. But in 
America, there is doubt about how to deal with criminals. How 
should criminals be dealt with?
SAI: There must be punishment. In areas of the Middle East, for 
example, if a person commits the crime of theft, the hand is cut off. 
When a person commits a crime, punishment must follow.
JH: Swami, people are thinking that after His 60th Birthday, 
Bhagavan Baba will step away from contact with the world and that 
His devotees will no longer have access to Him.
SAI: No, not at all. Sai is not separating from the world, nor will 
He separate from His devotees. The course of an Avathar goes 
invariably through the same stages. It is the same for every 
Avathar at all times. The first 16 years are characterized by con-
stant Leelas. Then Leelas and teachings up to age 45. From age 45 
to age 60, the emphasis is almost wholly on teaching. At age 60, 
there is a very big change.
JH: How, Swami? (Sai listed some things I should not repeat, but 
then . . .)
SAI: After age 60, Sai will directly give added strength to the 
minds of those persons who are actively working with Him. Now is 
starting a time of change. It is just as when a strong wind comes up 
and blows away the husks, leaving only the sound kernels. In these 
times, many devotees will fall away from Sai, leaving only those 
devotees whose faith is sound and solid. Have not you yourself 
noted a change? In the early years Sai came to your room to talk 
with you. Now, you come to the veranda each day and Sai does not 
even stop and speak with you. Such changes occur in the different 
stages of the Avathar.
JH: Swami has said that the entire world will know of his presence. 
At this time only a relatively few people know of Sai. As of now 
only local individuals represent him, and they do not draw