206 MY BABA AND I
JH: How could she not want a life different from that of a beggar?
SAI: Desires arise from the tendency of the mind to compare. It is 
chiefly the eyes, the vision, which presents to the mind oppor-
tunities for comparison. She is blind, her mind is not busy with 
comparison, so desires do not arise.
JH: If she continues happy and content, will she be finished with 
life and death and be free at the time she dies?
SAI: No. That requires spirituality.
JH: It is very important to know what Swami said, that the ground 
from which desires arise is the mind making comparisons.
Before I had the good fortune to meet Swamiji, my wife and I went 
to Burma every year for the practice of Vipassana meditation. It 
starts with Anapana.
SAI: I know, the watchman at the point where nose and lip meet.
JH: After the mind got concentrated enough to sit there, the 
Meditation Master directed the concentration to the top of the 
head.
SAI: Then there was a sensation like ants crawling on the scalp.
JH: Yes, Swami. Wherever I placed my attention, there was intense 
burning. That fire is said to be the direct perception of the arising 
and immediate disintegration of the smallest particles of matter 
which comprise the body. The conscious perception of the fire 
burns up all impurities. Was the Meditation Master correct in what 
he said?
SAI: It does not matter if the Meditation Master knew correctly or 
not. You did the work and you got the result. This is illustrated by 
a story. There was a guru and he had a woman disciple. The guru 
worshipped Krishna, and he had a lingam which required daily 
puja. Each day at the time for puja, the disciple would bring the 
required milk. However, guru and disciple lived on opposite sides 
of the river. Heavy rains came, and the river rose to flood stage. 
The disciple had to wait for a boat, and this made her late with the 
milk for the guru. He became angry that the puja could not be 
performed at the proper time and told the disciple, "You are late 
because of lack of faith in the sacred Name of Krishna. With