CONVERSATIONS WITH BABA 207
faith in Him and reciting His sacred Name, you could walk across 
the surface of the river and not have to wait for a boat."
The next day, the disciple, accepting the word of her guru as the 
word of God Himself, walked across the surface of the river and 
delivered the milk on time. After two or three days of this, the guru 
became curious and asked the disciple how she had arrived on time 
even though the river was still in flood.
The disciple replied that she did as instructed by the guru and walked 
across the river, constantly chanting the sacred Name of Krishna.
The guru could not accept this story and secretly followed her as she 
departed. To his astonishment, the woman never hesitated, but 
walked directly across the river.
Instantly resolving to try it himself, he pulled up his dhoti above his 
knees and ventured to step on the water. The water failed to sustain 
him and he was instantly immersed.
This story illustrates the vital role of faith. The woman enjoyed full 
faith, and it never occurred to her to even lift the hem of her sari for 
fear of the water; whereas faith was lacking in the guru.
JH: Swami, conflict between people appears to be inevitable. What 
to do?
SAL: Conflicts do come about, but they should be limited to that 
point, to the fact of conflict and should not be allowed to spread 
into additional words and feelings. If the conflict is allowed to 
expand, anger will deepen, bitter feelings will arise, and strong 
hatred will develop. On the other hand, love also starts as a point, 
and if allowed to do so, will expand until it fills one's entire life. 
This is spiritual truth. If there is conflict and disharmony between 
two people, and if they will leave it at that and not allow it to move 
further, then before long both parties will soften and harmony can 
again come into the relationship. At the worst, the conflict will re-
main dormant and will not grow to involve other people.
The practice of limiting disharmony and allowing love to freely 
expand will bring an organization to a harmonious unity. That har-
mony will attract public admiration and make possible great accom-
plishments in the large, wealthy country of America.
Each member of the organization would do well to do each and 
every action for Sai. If every action is done for Sai, then Sai will be