208 MY BABA AND I
added to every action and will bring success with that action. If 
every action is with Sai, then the actor is with Sai. The actor will 
then not be different from Sai. He will be Sai. He who becomes like 
Brahma is Brahma. Sai divided into Jiva becomes Jiva. Sai divided 
into infinity becomes infinity. Jiva divided into Sai becomes 
infinity.
In spiritual life, the first point of attack for any problem is to 
observe the situation in respect to oneself, and first improve that 
situation. If, after that, the other person continues to offend, he may 
be warned once, twice, or three times. If there is still no 
improvement, the person may be removed from organization office. 
Then, the person should be forgiven. This act of forgiving will 
bring about a change in the person, and also in the one who 
forgives. Suppose, for example, someone does something which 
brings severe pain into Swami's heart. What is the medicine which 
will cure the pain — cure and totally remove the pain? The medi-
cine is forgiveness. Forgiving is the medicine which will totally 
remove the pain from Swami's heart.
People who have developed a big intellect use it to entertain many 
ideas, and in this soil doubts grow. The humble, ordinary person 
knows much truth directly and does not cultivate as many doubts. 
Best of all is to have faith like a mountain of ice or a mountain of 
fire which does not provide soil for even a single doubt to 
germinate and grow. Where energy has been stored as intellect, that 
energy must be channeled into constructive activity.
JH: In the America Sai Organization, we presently require all 
Officers to pay for all the expenses of their office (i.e. there is no 
expense reimbursement).
SAI: That is correct. Additional expenses must come from the 
American Sai Organization.
JH: There could be 50,000 or more people in the U.S.A. who are 
Sai devotees, but less than 1,000 who are in the Centers. The 
Organization seems to be of minor importance. Why bother with it? 
Even the United Nations has dozens of non-organizational Sai 
devotees.
SAI: The Organization gives a chance to people. In America and 
other countries, there are large numbers of people who know about 
Sai, have faith in Him, talk about Him, His leelas, and His