CONVERSATIONS WITH BABA 211
JH: He tried and was doing fine, but then dissolved in tears.
SAI: It was his first talk in front of Swami. He won a Lion's Club 
award for speaking. But that little boy who Swami asked —how fast 
he replied — even before Swami finished asking! What attention and 
concentration on what Swami was saying!
JH: All the little boys were totally silent and absorbed. I was 
watching them. They were not even restless.
SAI: The parents of these boys, although needing the help of these 
children, tell the sons, "No, stay in school. It is fortunate for you." 
Often there is only the mother living, and even in such cases the 
mother insists on the son staying in the school. Where the mother 
has nothing but the son, Swami takes care of the mother. These 
mothers stay at the girls' school near Mangalore and work in the 
kitchens and dormitories. There are 300 acres there and the boys' 
school is on the same land. The boys' school has 80 instructors 
and this school here has 60 instructors. Now, it is vacation time 
with the high school and junior college students away. All the 
teachers are unmarried, and no teacher takes any salary.
JH: Swami! 140 teachers and all work without salary? It is unheard 
of. They sacrifice marriage so they can do seva for Swami without 
need of salary! This is the most extraordinary situation. Why is it not 
known?
SAL: Swami thinks it best to carry on such activities without fanfare.
JH: Swami, this is a 'big puzzle. In discourses, Swami says that he 
is looking for a true devotee, but does not find that devotee. How 
could that be? What wonderful devotees are these teachers. How 
is it that Swami can say he has not found a devotee?
SAL (He laughs and says): That is a different category. The true 
devotee is the same inside and outside.
JH: Then it seems that the status of that sought-for devotee cannot 
be reached!
SAI: Oh, yes. It can be reached.
JH: Swami, Rama and Krishna must also have been searching for a 
true devotee in those times.
SAL: Yes, every Avathar is searching for a true devotee. Rama was 
not regarded as God. Would they have sent Him to the forest, as 
God? He was looked upon as a King. He acted so. Only