212 MY BABA AND I
a very few sages knew His Divinity. Krishna also was a king. As God, 
would He have been put to work as the driver of a chariot?
JH: But in the Bhagavad Gita, Arjuna calls Krishna "Divine."
SAI: But still there was the body view of comrade, friend, relative. 
Only after Krishna left the body did Arjuna realize that Krishna was 
God. Even in their status as kings, only the residents of their 
respective cities gave Rama and Krishna homage and worship. The 
Sai Avathar is the only such where his Divinity is known to all 
peoples of all religions. Never has there been that before. With 
Krishna, only the gopis were aware of him as God — but they were 
rishis.
JH: They were rishis, Swami? As rishis they took birth as ignorant 
villagers?
SAI: Yes, Great rishis they were before taking that birth. When 
Krishna died, the gopis stopped taking food, and they discarded 
their bodies in that way.
JH: Swami, the matter of a true devotee in this Avathara is still a 
big puzzle. Swami has said that in this very lifetime there are men 
fully liberated from delusion. Would not even they meet the test 
for a true devotee?
SAI: A life fully liberated would meet the tests of a true devotee as set 
by Swami.
JH: Then for those who would seek that status?
SRINIVAS: They should do perfect Sadhana.
SAI: Sadhana! No! That is physical. It is a matter of love. Confidence 
comes first. Where there is love, there is peace. Where there is peace, 
there is truth. Where there is truth, there is bliss. Where there is bliss, 
there is God.
(NOTE: Swami's words were translated only when he was talking with 
me. The rest of the time he was talking in Telugu to Radhakrishna (
who was driving) and to Srinivas.)
JH: Swami, in this matter I am not clear. Swami says that money 
should not be a part of spiritual matters, that money should not be 
paid. I accept this and have been strict about it to the extreme in 
the American Sai Organization. But I do not understand the 
principle. It seems to me, and it does to most Americans, that 
almost no value is given to that which is free. Whereas, when 
money has to be paid, care is given, attention is given, and what 
costs money is valued.