CONVERSATIONS WITH BABA 213
SAI: Yes, at first that is the case. But it does not last. The value 
given is sudden and, like fireworks, it rises fast. But, like 
fireworks, the fall is also fast. With the payment of money there is 
no love or appreciation. You go to the shop and pay for what you 
want. Why thank the seller, or have any appreciation? You paid in 
full and that is the end of it.
A guru will start a philosophy, a method of sadhana. Money will 
be charged and paid, interest will rapidly expand, and people 
will think they must join and take part. Then, in a few years, 
where is it all? A recent example is the young person, (name 
deleted), was that his name? The world over, people gave money 
to receive instruction. Where is he now? There is no word of 
him.
Swami does not do like that. He builds slowly, but it is firm and 
sound and it continues. You remember Prasanthi Nilayam fourteen 
years ago, and now you see the slow but solid growth of Swami's 
work.
Spiritual matters must occur only in a context of love. When advice 
and instruction and help is given in compassion, in love —and not 
for money paid, there will be some feeling of appreciation; and in the 
context of appreciation and confidence there will be some spiritual 
benefit. Moreover, when the actions are done in love and not as part 
of money raising, money comes anyway.
An example: Here is a coconut palm tree. (Baba raised his arm in 
an upright position). And up here (touching his wrist) are the 
coconuts. This tree has a shadow which extends for a distance on 
the ground. Now, a man who wishes to secure the coconuts climbs 
up the coconut tree. At the very time he is climbing the tree, his 
shadow may be seen climbing the shadow tree. And, when he 
plucks the coconuts, his shadow may be seen plucking the shadow 
coconuts. The man who climbs the real tree secures the real coco-
nuts and, at the same time, his shadow self climbs the shadow tree 
and plucks the shadow coconuts. But if the man does not relish the 
task of climbing the real tree, and instead limits his action to the 
climbing of the shadow tree, he will not get satisfaction from the 
shadow coconuts.
The shadow tree represents the world, and the shadow coconuts 
represent worldly prosperity. The real tree represents spiritual life, 
and the real coconuts represent the fulfillment of life. Thus,