214 MY BABA AND I
the person who devotes his life and energy to spiritual values will 
automatically get worldly benefits.
JH & SRINIVAS: Swami! What a wonderful example! What a 
wonderful way to convey Swami's teaching that one should do his 
work in the context of love and not for money! Automatically, the 
worldly needs are cared for.
SAI: It is a good example?
JH & SRINIVAS: Swami, it is a perfect example!
JH: Swami, a puzzle in daily life is this: Daily life is a continuous 
sequence of small choices, and we select the option which gives the 
best pleasure or comfort. In this way, our entire life is directed to 
comfort and pleasure, and such a life cannot take us to "Liberation." 
What to do?
SAI: The principle which Swami teaches is to like that which we 
have to do instead of doing that which we like.
Every action should be done for Swami, every action dedicated 
to Swami. Then, duty, discipline, and devotion are the guides for 
action. So long as you take the body to be yourself, action will 
be for comfort and pleasure. Realize that you are not the body, 
and be free of the need for pleasure and comfort.
JH: This question will sound silly to Swami, but it is serious to me.
SAI: What?
JH: I write many letters to Swami about activities, problems, and 
accomplishments in the American Sai Organization. But often I 
think it is silly to describe problems and events, since I know from 
my own direct experience that Swami is omnipresent and knows all 
about the events.
SAI: There is much nonsense about Swami being omnipresent and 
ominpotent! People start to think they need do nothing, that Swami 
will do everything! Then they do not bother to do even their daily 
duty.
In spiritual life, the relationship between you and Swami is heart to 
heart. But in worldly life, Swami has given you work to do. This 
requires work in the world, activity in the world. You are required 
to do your duty to the very limit of the task. So far as writing is 
concerned, the writing of letters to Swami is for your satisfaction.
JH: For my satisfaction, Swami?