CONVERSATIONS WITH BABA 215
SAI: Yes, for your satisfaction. You write to Swami, and your 
mind is then free of the matter. It is not that Swami does not 
know. Suppose you withhold some troublesome point, you then 
have a guilty feeling. But you tell Swami, and there is no guilty 
feeling. Do your duty fully and completely in the work which 
Swami has given to you.
January 14, 1983
JH: Swami, two questions important for our work in daily life, and 
in preparation for the Symposium in Rome:
In his Discourses, Swami says that God should be recognized as 
the Doer of all actions and that we should not take it upon our-
selves to be the doer. Further, Swami also says that instead of 
depending on limited human strength, we should call upon the 
strength of God. Since Swami says these two things in his Dis-
courses, then the instructions must be intended for everybody?
SAL Take the viewpoint that God is working through you.
JH: What does that mean, Swami? How does that apply in the actual 
actions taking place each day?
SAI: You think you are engaging in the action, but it is your body 
doing so, or your mind, or your intelligence. But God is working 
through them. It is only the Atma in you which is the source of 
action. The Atma is God.
JH: Then, instead of considering that it is myself acting, I should tell 
myself — and appreciate — that "I" am just a word, and that all these 
actions and movements going on are not coming from "Hislop" but 
are actually God Himself acting?
SAL God is using your intelligence, mind, and body as His instruments 
for doing that particular work. You write with a pen, or cut paper with 
scissors — but it is not those instruments that are doing the work — it 
is you who are using the instruments for the purpose of doing the work. 
Likewise, the instruments you call "yourself" —intelligence, mind, and 
body — are used by God for His purpose.
JH: Is that a practical thing to do, hour in and hour out? Tell myself 
that my mind and body, at any and every moment, are at that 
moment being used by God as His instrument? Is that a practical 
way to live and move through the day?