CONVERSATIONS WITH BABA 219
the thumb, to the Divine. The three remaining fingers represent the 
three gunas — the three modes of temperament, thought, and 
action observable in all people — the middle finger being the 
Sathwic guna (calm, pure, balanced nature). The Jappmala is then 
drawn across the Sathwic finger by the thumb and the forefinger 
movement.
SAI: (Demonstrating the use of the Jappmala) Like this, Swami 
holds all of creation in His hand.
(A man from Nigeria was in the group, and Baba next turned to him.)
SAL: What religion? What is your religion?
ANSWER: Christian.
SAL: Do You like Jesus?
ANSWER: Yes.
Moving his hand, Baba creates a ring, the center stone of which 
carries a very fine portrait of Jesus. First, he shows the ring to 
those of us sitting near his chair, and then to the Nigerian, saying, 
"Do you like Jesus? Which do you want, Jesus or Sai?" The 
Nigerian replied, "I would be pleased with either." Baba holds the 
ring between thumb and forefinger about six inches from his lips 
and blows his breath upon it. Then he shows it to those close to 
his chair. The portrait on the center stone has changed from that of 
Jesus to a portrait of Sai. To the Nigerian, Baba then says, "Now 
you have both. Come here." The man moves forward and Baba 
places the ring on his finger. Baba says, "See, a perfect fit."
Later on it was the Nigerian's turn to go into the inner interview 
room for a brief, private conversation, and when he came out we 
could see that the ring had changed yet once again. Baba had again 
recreated the ring and it was now a single large diamond in an 
appropriate setting. As Sai followed the man into the main room, 
he said, "He didn't like a large ring!" This remark caused 
considerable merriment. In fact, the entire interview was joyful in 
the extreme and Baba was in a great mood, constantly cracking 
jokes. Hearing such happy laughter coming from the group, the 
people outside were wondering what on earth was happening.
SAL: Any questions? Spiritual topics?
Q: How to live with worldly desires which rise endlessly?