220 MY BABA AND I
SAI: Turn all wishes and desires to God, then all will be well. Mind 
is like a key to the door of a prison. Turn it to the left, the door 
opens and the person is free to turn towards God and spiritual life. 
Turn the key to the right, and the person is locked into worldly life. 
Turn every wish and every desire into desire to be with God, and be 
happy.
Q: Swami, what is the truth of the mind. How to use thought and 
the mind?
SAI: There is no mind. Just as cloth is seen as thread, then as cotton 
only, there is only God. God is like a perfect mirror; your desires, 
thoughts, and actions are perfectly reflected in that perfect mirror, 
which is God. When your desires, thoughts, and actions are 
reflected back to you, you may think God sent them, but they are 
really your own.
Q: But what to do about bad thoughts and desires?
SAI: Human thoughts and desires. If you think, "I am human," 
then such human aspects as anger and jealousy will be reflected 
and will return to you. But you are not human. You are Divine. 
You are God. Think and feel, "I am Divine." Then you will think 
and feel only love, for God is Love. Everyplace, everything is 
Love, Love only.
Q: I have a desire which I cannot put away.
SAI: What?
Q: Privacy. I must have privacy.
SAI: Physical privacy is first, then mental privacy.
Q: And I make mistakes. The same mistakes. Can I give my 
mistakes to Baba?
SAI: Oh, yes. I am always ready. Give your life to me. Be my 
instrument. I act through you.
Q: Then even bad thoughts and acts are by you?
SAI: Human thoughts and acts. God is love only. You are Divine. 
Be Love. Act in Love.
Q: But, Swami, the mistakes I make. Even though I know better, I 
make the same mistakes. Can I give you my repeated mistakes?
SAI: Once, or twice, or three times perhaps the same mistake, but 
repeating and repeating is not mistake. It is habit!
JH: Swami says that if one is so fortunate as to have God's Love, 
then no spiritual practice, no sadhana is necessary?