CONVERSATIONS WITH BABA 223
Organization with some changes, but not major changes. Devotion 
to God: the purifying of mind and heart, by sacrificing to God all ego 
tendencies, is to be the purpose and the practice of the Sai devotees 
in the American Sai Organization.
JH: Swami, for the past several years my neck has been painful and 
doctors can do nothing. What should I do for it?
SAL: (rubbing the neck with his hand) Don't do anything. Swami 
will take care of it.
JH: I have some questions I do not know how to answer. About 
living in the moment, what is meant?
SAI: Those are general questions. Ask Kasturi to be here tomorrow 
morning and I will answer those questions.
October 23, 1984
Interview with Baba, Mr. Kasturi Translating
JH: Baba, may I make a donation to the Whitefield Hospital?
SAI: Why?
JH: Well, my operation was there.
SAI: No. Not necessary. It is our hospital, all is ours. No.
JH: Swami, as I travel the nation, I am asked questions. I do not 
know the answers to some of them. One question which always 
comes up is free will. One has the free will to choose God or the 
world. But on the other hand, Baba in one glance sees past, present, 
and future. So how can there be free will?
SAI: From that viewpoint, from the Divine, there is no free will, for 
all is God. But from the ego viewpoint of the individual, there is free 
will. There is general law, and then the individual and society. The 
individual acts in society according to his free will, but all conform 
to the general law. The individual must act, and his action is a 
function of his mind. There are thoughts. Thoughts are seeds. They 
sprout and become actions. The actions then appear to be free will to 
the concerned individual. Everyone has been given skills and talents 
such as intelligence, reason, energy; and they must be put to use in 
life action. (After discussing the interview with Mr. Kasturi the next 
day, it seems to me that for the individual person it boils down to 
this: The individual acts according to his