224 MY BABA AND I
talents and capacity at any particular moment. If he is ignorant of 
Vedanta and has never listened to Baba, the individual feels he or 
she is acting freely according to his inclinations and his will. On the 
contrary, if the individual has reached a conviction that everything 
is absent except God, the individual then feels that everything he is 
doing is being prompted by God and thus the question of free will 
does not bother him).
JH: Swami, perhaps I will be able to understand it and explain it. 
Swami said that the mind would fix itself, if one would live in the 
moment. What does Swami mean by living in the moment? How 
does one live in the moment?
SAI: Past is gone, future is not here, there is only the moment. Live 
fully now without worry about the future.
JH: But, Swami, one has to look forward to judge the conse-
quences of the action.
SAI: Why? Live now. Act according to your best feelings and 
thoughts and do not worry.
JH: But Swami said that Krishna chose Arjuna because Arjuna had 
foresight and looked ahead to the consequences.
SAI: Don't think about Arjuna. He was worried about his relatives.
JH: But Swami, when I make some move in respect to the American 
Council, I have to consider what the consequences will be before I 
go ahead. That does not square with living in the moment.
SAI: But that is duty. In duty you must look into the future and 
weigh the consequences.
JH: Oh! That is what is meant. Now I understand it. Another 
question which arises is: do actions come about because of Baba, or 
by Baba? That is, action takes place because of the sunlight, but the 
Sun is not regarded as the doer, whereas it is said that Swami is the 
doer in respect to our actions.
SAI: The Sun gives light — but the Sun also does work. It makes 
changes in plant life, for example.
JH: Does that mean that Swami is the actor, the actual doer in our 
lives?
SAI: Consider that you are an instrument and Sai acts by using 
you as his instrument for action.
JH: That implies that it is foolish to think that we act, for the fact 
is that the action is the result of a prompting by God?