226 MY BABA AND I
everything is all right and feeling happiness. The question about life 
in the universe arises because you project your own particular 
circumstances. You feel that other ways of life would be intoler-
able because such ways would be intolerable for you. In the hot, 
blazing Sun, for instance, beings are living. This life exists in cir-
cumstances considered to be intolerable by you. Elsewhere in the 
universe, life feels it is Divinity, is one with Divinity, and is quite 
happy, and feeling all is right.
JH: Then this world is a very peculiar place!
SAI: Yes, this small planet Earth is very special. It is unique in the 
universe. This is a very important topic. It is of very great 
significance. One who can understand the mystery of the Earth is 
great indeed. He is infinite.
JH: Is the Earth mystery unveiled in Baba's divine teachings?
SAI: Swami can reveal this mystery. (In talking with Mr. Kasturi 
next day, he believes the mystery of planet Earth, which Swami 
refers to, is the extraordinary configurations of the five elements (
Space, Air, Fire, Water, Earth) which makes the Earth unique 
throughtout the vast cosmos. Next time in India, I will try for a 
chance to ask Swami to elaborate on what he means by the mystery 
of planet Earth).
JH: Everybody is self-conscious; conscious that he is, conscious of 
his being. Is this consciousness the base, or is there something prior 
to this?
SAI: That consciousness is second. First is God-consciousness. 
God-consciousness is the base.
JH: A source of confusion is about everything being a creation of 
the mind. Creation of whose mind?
SAI: Yes, it is the mind.
JH: But Swami, how could that be? Is my mind creating war and 
all its horrors? I do not find such actions in myself.
SAI: When you think of the world, it exists for you. When you do 
not think of it, for you it does not exist.
JH: When I do not think of the world it is not in my con-
sciousness! Does the war exist only according to my consciousness 
of it? But there was a beginning to the war. How could that begin-
ning be due only to my mind?
SAI: At your stage it will not be possible for you to grasp this. As 
long as the mind exists, it is not possible to comprehend