LETTERS 235
PRASANTHI VIDWANMAHASABHA
P R A S A N T H I  N I L A Y A M
Founder Preiident 
lihagawan Srl Satbya Sai Baba
Honorary Pre,ident : 
Dr. B. Ramakrishna Rao 
8-9-69
Hislop, accept this shower of Love and Joy, I received all the letters 
you wrote, and felt happy, reading them. Since I could not get a 
moment of leisure, due to the various items of work connected with 
the Whitefield College, and since the hurdle of language had to be 
crossed — that is to say, since I could not write to you directly in 
Telugu, and I did not have with me persons who could correctly 
translate what I write — I had to send you this letter after so much 
delay. Though letters may be distant, I assure you, Love is not dis-
tant. It will not be distant, it can never be distant. I am ever in your 
heart, as hai (unchanging, unceasing joy) and as Sai — immersed in 
Bliss and conferring Bliss.
Hislop, though I wanted to come to America, there were some 
urgent matters in connection with the development of the Colleges 
here, that I had to attend to. The Colleges have correlations with 
the Government of India, and so, they have to be equipped 
accordingly; laboratories, libraries, permanent college buildings, 
and other facilities for the students and faculties have to be pro-
vided. The Committee has the responsibility to see that no rule or 
regulation is neglected, no deficiency creeps into the institution, 
and no handicap is imposed on the activity of learning and 
teaching. Therefore, I had to look into all these matters myself.
On September 18th, Pathak, our Vice-President of India, is laying the 
Foundation for the Building of the Women's College at Anantapur. 
The Sathya Sai Educational Trust is allotting Rupees 11 lakhs for the 
completion of this project; that is to say, we are spending two 
hundred thousand dollars, for the construction of the College 
Building.
Both Colleges are progressing nicely and attaining first class 
standards in the Universities, to which they are affiliated. The