236 MY BABA AND I
2
training given to the students has to be improved, still more. We are 
giving instruction in Prayer, Japa, and Dhyana and laying special 
emphasis on character-building and the practice of discipline. The 
teaching of arts and science, both secular and spiritual, with 
emphasis on moral, religious, and spiritual values, is also given. It 
prepares the students for the courses leading to University Degrees. 
Since I decided to ameliorate some of these very urgent problems 
regarding students, I refrained from tours this year.
As the saying goes, "Master the home, then master the world." 
Commendable traits have first to be developed in this country, isn'
t it, so that its influence may be felt as an inspiration for those 
who are in other lands? While what is near is neglected, though 
dirt-ridden, any attempt to cleanse what is far away will 
necessarily be ridiculed. For me, the near and the distant are of 
equal consequence. I am not affected by feelings of "far" and "
near." But, ordinary folk are different, isn't it? Therefore, it is 
highly beneficial to teach Indian students what is essentially good 
for them, and encourage them to exemplify it in action. When the 
culture of India is not understood even by Indians, how can others 
understand it? How can others follow it? The American tour had 
to be postponed.
My Love is love, for all mankind; my Truth is truth, for all 
mankind; my Intent is content, for all mankind. However, it is on-
ly by evincing these in some Form or other that my nature can 
declare itself. At the present time, there is an urgent need to trans-
form methods of education. Today, the field of knowledge that 
man has yet to acquire is much vaster than what he says he has 
known. What he knows is very little; it is just an atom of the vast 
unknown. But, man is blinded by the flash of pride, on this petty 
achievement. In reality, if man can only know the Beginningless 
and Endless, if he conceives the All-pervasive Immanent Energy, 
pride can find no place in him.
In fact, many errors are committed in the name of religion. 
Religion is three-fourths character. Only those who preserve 
character can be pronounced truly religious. Without that 
character, of what profit is it, to bluster forth arguments and 
explanations? As a first step, character has to be fostered in the