LETTERS 239
study, and the listening to discourses, for transient mental satisfac-
tion or even entertainment. They feel that, that little is enough effort. 
But, the task is not over with these . . . Food has to be cooked, it has 
to be consumed, and, it has to be digested and assimilated. The body 
can develop strength only when these three steps are accomplished, 
one after the other. Similarly, what is heard has to be pondered over, 
what is pondered over has to be put into practice. It is only when all 
three are accomplished that Atmananda (Atmic Bliss, the Bliss of the 
Realisation of the Reality) can be attained.
Instead, if what is accomplished is very little, and what is 
advertised about oneself is much more, one becomes the target of 
ridicule. He who puts into practice a single item of spiritual disci-
pline derives much more benefit, than he who preaches about a 
hundred items! A seed embedded in the soil sprouts, grows into a 
tree, and yields fruit. If, however, it is cast on the surface, it does 
not sprout. So too, faith implanted deep in the heart will express 
itself as a tree, that is to say, it will yield fruit — spiritual experi-
ence. But, if faith is on the surface only, it will be wafted away in 
publicity, and in the ridicule it provokes. Only the commodity that 
has no demand is advertised in plenty. For the pure and the holy, 
what need is there for advertisement? Advertisement of spiritual 
experiences is an evil habit, quite contrary to the spiritual attitude.
I do not need name and fame. They are as disgusting as spittle. Do 
not publicise, without filling the heart with Love. Live and act, in the 
spirit of full fraternity, with love and regard for all, and demonstrate 
that you have known the ultimate Truth through the spontaneous 
manifestation of that genuine experience. Any other method will 
only foster disbelief, atheism.
Those who seek to acquire steadiness of faith must first acquire 
the strength to bear grief and pain, insult and injury. They should 
not slide from a term of self-control (Yoga) into a bout of excess 
(Bhoga) and end up with a period of illness (Roga). Self-control 
must persist as self-control, until the very end. The Yogi must 
continue as Yogi, till the end of life. The succession of joy and 
grief must help confirm the faith and make it immovable. That 
alone can evidence true devotion.
When there is no gust of wind, an iron ball and a dry leaf, both lie 
unmoved, and in similar manner, upon the ground. To conclude that 
they are therefore of the same nature would be wrong.