240 MY BABA AND I
Let but the wind blow a little fast, the leaf will rise and fly far; the 
iron ball is unaffected. Such is the nature of false and true devotees. 
When there is no pain or grief, both the false and the true are alike; 
when pain or discord presents itself, false devotion takes to flight. 
The devotion that seeks publicity is not true steady devotion. 
Devotion, that is confirmed in and through practice, can alone be the 
spring of lasting Bliss.
Experiences can be communicated among ourselves or to ourselves, 
or even to those who evince delight in listening to them and are 
eager to share; but, if they are announced in public to whomsoever 
may listen, they may not be seen in true light, they might even be 
misinterpreted and ridiculed. Those who are hungry will themselves 
come seeking places where food is available. Those who have no 
hunger will not be impressed, even when a variety of tasty dishes is 
placed before them.
Where Divinity is sought after, one ought always to behave in the 
spirit of Love, devoid of the slightest trace of hate, envy, and anger. 
Sadhana should first be directed towards the elimination of these 
traits. When worldly relationships are accepted as the basis of 
activity, one is inevitably drawn into the mire of separateness and 
distinction. When one cultivates the inner look, one attains the 
conviction of the basic equality of all. Observe the trunks of trees (
not the branches, twigs, flowers, and leaves), and you will be 
convinced of the sameness of all trees. Similarly, when one 
observes only the status and stages, the office and authority; only 
differences and distinctions will strike the mind. But, in every one, 
as the very basis of existence, there is the one and only Soul, the 
Atma. That is to be known and realised.
Man derives all the joy and peace that he needs from within himself 
and not from sources outside himself. So, the best spiritual 
discipline is: strengthen the inward vision.
My dear Hislop! Do not let yourselves be drawn by other pursuits; 
carry on Sadhana, unaffected by them. I, Swami, am with you, beside 
you, before you, behind you, in your home; my love, my corn-passion, 
my grace are ever with you, you will never be without them. You will 
experience the Bliss of the Atma, the Reality, very soon.
Convey my numberless blessings to your grha-lakshmi (the 
Goddess of the Home, conferring peace and prosperity on the 
Home), Mrs. Hislop. May both of you be showered with mutual