LETTERS 249
Aug. 8, 1972
Beloved Swamiji:
On Thursday, Baba's Day, July 27, second day of the full moon, we 
packed our furniture in a truck and moved to the new house in 
Mexico. The move was finished the next day, third full moon day. 
The combination of days and dates should be auspicious?
We are camping in the house for the time being, since there are no 
cabinets, only a rough floor, only partial plumbing, etc. However, 
the site is beautiful, and so is the house (Swami's North American 
residence). In mind's eye, we can see Swami moving lightly, with 
his graceful walk, through the white-columned arches of the house 
center.
Indeed, Swami is here. Victoria was washing the floor of the salon 
and there, clearly visible on the damp cement, were Swami's 
footprints. She had footwear on . . . so, there can be no mistake 
that it was Swamiji's footprint! By the time she called me in from 
outside, the prints had almost faded . . . but I could still see a 
portion of one footprint. It was a great thrill to us to realize that by 
virtue of Swami's Grace, He is here with us; so much so that we 
can even see the physical print of His Lotus Feet.
Then 3 days ago, Swami again showered His Grace in great 
abundance. While at the market Victoria lost her balance on the 
waxed floor and fell hard, striking the left breast on a corner of a 
wooden step near floor level. The blow was so severe that blood 
came through the pores of the skin. Such a rough hard blow to the 
breast has the reputation of quickly inducing cancer. We rushed 
home and she applied Swami's Vibhuti. The miracle at once 
followed. Pain ceased and the breast regained its normal color; 
whereas a lesser blow on the leg from the same accident has pro-
duced an area fully black and blue!
God is surely omnipresent; and God is Swamiji and Swamiji is God! 
To any person with open eyes, mind, and intelligence, Divinity is 
surely visible throughout Swami's daily action. But, for ourselves (
man), God may be us — indeed must be us . . . but it is certainly 
difficult to see the obverse side of the coin . . that we are