266 MY BABA AND I
Baba advises various ways in which it can be done. First of all, 
there has to be an intensity! One cannot just sit back and say, "God 
is everything, so He can fix everything! I do not need to take any 
action whatsoever!" Baba warns against such an attitude. In India 
there are groups that think that way, and this attitude is the great 
fault of these groups. Baba says that until we are fully realized, 
fully God-Realized, we must work and work hard. Man is born into 
this world in order to work. But work is not fully effective unless it 
is done with intensity. In fact, Baba told me that the real reason we 
do not fully realize the love that is within us, is because we do not 
have that intensity. And how are we going to get that intensity? We 
are going to get it by fully appreciating the situation in which we 
find ourselves.
For example, if we were in a dark room with a poisonous snake, 
with what intensity we would be listening to every little noise, with 
what intensity we would be gauging every littlest movement that 
we made! Or, in another way: when we sit in the darshan line and 
Baba is approaching us, with what intensity our gaze and our 
attention is fixed on him — maybe he will stop and say something 
to us; maybe he will tell us to come into the interview room — at 
that moment our intensity is full and'we are really alert!
Now, what is there about our present situation that will bring about 
such intensity in our life? Where does danger lurk?
We are born in this body, in this society. We are subject to all sorts 
of influences — our parents, our schoolteachers, our government, 
our sex, our age, our size, our health, the influences from the stars . 
. . everything is moving and twisting us here and there . . . we are 
not free . . . and think of the hurricane of past karma that looms 
high and menacing behind the next embodiment! Where will it 
blow the frail vessel of body and mind if we miss this once in a 
million opportunity that we have now, to be alive during the time of 
the Avathar and listen to the truth that he proclaims! Now our luck 
has changed, the turn of the tide is with us! If we don't take this 
opportunity, when will it come again? Isn't that danger enough to 
bring some intensity to mind and heart?
Given that intensity, how do we now apply it in order to realize the 
inner world which must be projected onto the outside?
There are a number of sadhanas, spiritual practices, as Baba has 
told us; a number of ways to look at that situation. There is no