ON DIRECTLY EXPERIENCING THE PRESENCE OF GOD 267
time at this brief meeting to deal with the entire range, the whole 
situation, although it would be very interesting to do so. Let me 
just briefly talk about one aspect alone: how to make room for the 
love of God, how to cultivate it, how to have the love of God 
always alive in us, to be thinking of God, loving God all the time.
It can be done, first of all, by Divine Vision — that is seeing 
through the transient personality, the transient characteristics of the 
person with whom you are dealing. I look here at these ladies and 
these gentlemen — everyone appears to be different, everyone has 
his or her own characteristics, his own history, his own quirks and 
so on. So, the thing to do is to realize that this is just the ap-
pearance, just as on the movie screen when there is a battle going 
on, people are running, shooting, buildings are burning, and bombs 
are exploding. All this seems very real to us; our kids are afraid, 
some ladies even cry because of what is happening to the hero, and 
yet — when it is all over — the screen has not been touched, it 
has not been burned, there are no bullet holes in it! The whole 
thing has just been a show, a play! We have to realize that this is 
true in terms of people also; that this play is going on with all the 
various personalities and differences. Behind all, there is one 
reality which is permanent and unchanging — Baba tells us that 
the unchanging Reality is God, that God is the resident of every 
heart, that God is the permanent, unchanging, One Reality.
So when we see people day by day, throughout our workday, our 
day at home, when we look at a person, let us look through that 
personality and with our intelligence, with our discrimination, let 
us appreciate the fact that God is the reality of that person, even 
though he or she may be so obnoxious that we wouldn't want them 
to come within ten feet of us. Nevertheless, we can look through 
that and appreciate the fact that God is in the very heart of that 
person, and we can say, looking at God in his or her heart, "
Dearest Lord, I love Thee, I love You, Baba." Silently, in our mind 
and heart, we say it.
To the person, we pay no attention. Let him go by, let him go his 
own way, live his own life, don't interfere with him or her. But look 
through the changeable personality, start to appreciate, that in 
essence, all is one, that God is every place. Greet God, tell Him that 
you love Him, tell Baba you love him, tell him every time you look 
at anybody.