268 MY BABA AND I
If you will do this, you will feel a flash of happiness course through 
your being. A thousand times you do it, a thousand times you will 
feel that flash of love and happiness. In that way, all the time you 
are looking at people, even though you are behaving in a perfectly 
commonsense and logical way, at the same time you are feeling that 
love, the Love of God which is within you.
Now, extend that love in another direction — the practice of the 
constant presence of God, which is a discipline we know very well 
in the Christian religion. As you know, a sculptor, a creative artist, 
can take a block of stone, a block of granite, and as far as he is 
concerned, every possible form, every possible face is implicit 
within that block of stone. Here is that block of granite: does the 
artist have to chisel a deer or a face upon the stone? No! Every 
possible form already exists within that block of granite, and all it 
requires is a creative artist in order to bring out that face or that form 
which he wants to bring out from the latent to the patent.
Precisely the same is true in respect to God. He is omnipresent; 
omnipresent means present at all times in all places. Baba has told 
us explicitly again and again, that he, Baba, is omnipresent. I 
daresay that almost every person in this room has experienced the 
fact that Baba is omnipresent. Has Baba not come into your life at 
one time or another, in a very plain fashion, even though his body is 
far away in India? I dare say that almost everyone in this room has 
experienced Baba's omnipresence.
In any block of space — this block of space in front of me now, the 
block of space beside your bed when you waken in the morning — 
God is fully there, completely there. All we need do is to bring Him 
out of that block of space, with the spiritual artistry of a devotee of 
God, from the latent to the patent. With energy, with resolve, with 
your strength of being, bring God's form out of that block of space 
directly beside you every morning when you awaken. Visualize 
God, conceive Him in the form of the Divine most dear to you . . . 
it may be the form of Jesus Christ, of Krishna, of the Divine 
Mother, or it may be the form of Baba whom many of us love most 
dearly as a form, alive today, fully charged with the glory of the 
Divine, as the infinite Divine appearing as form to give us joy. See 
God, visualize His form, pray to Him, bring Him out of that block 
of space, then take His hand and hold His hand every moment of 
the day from waking until you