ON DIRECTLY EXPERIENCING THE PRESENCE OF GOD 269
go to sleep at night, committing yourself to His care. When con-
scious, be with Him consciously, holding tightly to His hand; 
when consciousness fades at sleep, pray to Him to hold and pro-
tect you, and He will be with you the night through. Day and night 
you can be with Him. It can be done; it is always done by God's 
devotees. It is an old, old practice. It works, because Name and 
Form are not separate. We also can do it; we can take God's hand 
and hold onto Him from now to the last moment of our existence 
in this transient body.
Now, if we were walking with our beloved Baba all day 
wherever we went, would we not feel love in our heart for him? 
Would it not be almost impossible for us to have thoughts of 
hatred or jealousy or anger while holding Baba by his hand? 
Almost impossible! All bad traits, all these dark flowers of the 
night; they grow in darkness, they thrive in darkness. How can 
they be there, how can they persist when you are holding Baba's 
hand throughout the whole day?
So if we just take these two practices, that of Divine Vision —seeing 
God as the Reality wherever you look, and holding His hand 
throughout the day, committing yourself to His care when asleep; 
then that love which is your reality will grow and expand and will 
fully realize itself. And then that love will come from the inside to 
the outside and that will change your whole life.
That is the way to approach the uncovering of the inner love for 
God, that inside beauty and purity and energy which is going to 
change the outside. That is the way to start, it is a perfectly 
practical way. In that way we can implement Baba's teachings. 
There is no reason we cannot do it — nobody sees us do it. When 
we approach somebody and we pass that person — saluting God 
who is the reality of that person — they do not know it. They can't 
point a finger at us saying, "Look at that crazy person." Or, when 
we are walking in the street or sitting in the office, holding God's 
hand — nobody can see us doing this — they can't say, "Hey, this 
person cannot work for us, he is not all there!" It is all inside, all in 
your heart. Therefore there is no reason for anyone to say, "It can-
not be done!" It can be done!!
Every person here has freedom, God-Realization, within his or her 
grasp. Every person here has immortality next door to him, by his 
side, within him, above him . . . We should never lose