272 MY BABA AND I
may awaken us from our ordinary daily life and we may resolve, "I
will search for my Truth." Here we need to be alert and understand
what "I search for my Truth" means in this context. The everyday
meaning will be that "I" am an individual person positioned in time
and space, that "Truth" can be found and recognized and is "mine,"
yet somehow "my Truth" is apart from me and thus requires search.
Baba assures us that what "I search for my Truth" really means is
that "my Truth" is myself and not something separate from me.
That "search" is to clearly see wrong notions and discard them,
and that "I" is the Undifferentiated Supreme Absolute Divinity,
which only appears to be limited to individuality in somewhat the
same context as bubbles on the leading edge of an ocean wave
appear to be separate, but in fact are neither separate from the
ocean nor different from the ocean. In terms of daily life, this
means that the finality of everything is one and the same Divinity
— that we appear to be apart from the Divine but are not actually
SO.
Saints and sages, from the most ancient of times, have told us that the
path to the realization of our Divine Reality is that of detachment
from the objects and affairs which we are presently attached to
because of desire and craving and misconceptions; and Baba teaches
us that this detachment will come about when we examine objects
and affairs closely so as to clearly perceive their deficiencies.
We have experiences such as joy, boredom, or agony as a result of
contact with worldly objects. But relationships between ourselves
and objects are changeable, temporary, and not reliable.
Experiences of boredom and agony are temporary and that is all to
the good, no doubt. But conversely, we cling tenaciously to the
experience of joy, and we easily become attached to objects which
provide a range of pleasant experiences. However, all objects,
even one's beloved spouse or child, come into existence, stay for a
while, change much or little, and then are no more. The promise
of bliss which we perceived in the object is aborted by its inherent
seeds of decay and one's hope of lasting joy in these relationships
is betrayed time and time again. This happens to everyone, and
this is the principal deficiency of an object, yet we ignore repeated
lessons and continue to seek worldly objects hoping to experience
happiness thereby.
Baba teaches that a search to find happiness in something per-