TO SUM IT UP 273
ceived outside ourselves is bound to fail. He tells us that only when 
one realizes oneself is there happiness. Limitless unqualified bliss is 
our natural self, our reality. Being-consciousness-bliss is our name, 
but that name is good only for communication; our true reality is 
beyond words. Baba teaches that our reality is perfect love, divine 
love, and that bliss is love. He tells us that our task as pilgrims on the 
spiritual path is to purify mind and heart; for only a pure mind and 
heart can reflect the immaculate truth which is beyond the opposites. 
Baba informs us that all truth will instantly flash into a purified heart.
Since the omnipresent consciousness, the Divine Principle, is the 
reality of both mind and heart, it cannot be difficult to realize the 
inherent purity of mind and heart. Baba tells us that in this time 
and age, wherein we encounter imperfection wherever we turn, the 
most effective means to get rid of the impurities which now crowd 
mind and heart is to directly call upon the ever-perfect Divine 
Principle: one's innermost reality. The way is simple and 
immediately available to every person. The way is to fill the mind 
with that particular name of Divinity which is dear to one's heart 
and fill the heart with devotion to the Divine. It is the experience 
of people that, in the presence of the Divine Name, one's manifold 
impurities weaken and fall away without struggle and without the 
application of any other type of discipline.
Sri Sathya Sai Baba declares that consciousness is omnipresent. "
Omnipresent" means everywhere at every moment. Omnipresence 
of consciousness means that one's consciousness is the 
consciousness of everything in creation. It means that conscious-
ness is present in everything in creation regardless of how the ob-
ject or the expression of life might be classified on our scale of 
values. The same omnipresent consciousness is in God, in the most 
distant universe, in the block of granite, in you, and in me. Ap-
parent differences are those of name, form, and function, and of the 
density of the cloud of ignorance which obscures the brilliant light 
of consciousness. Here, the word "ignorance" is used to indicate an 
uncritical acceptance of separateness, of duality. We can easily 
understand how ignorance hides the omnipresence of con-
sciousness by noticing how we ourselves feel that we are separate, 
and how we do not seem to demonstrate the love and the glory of 
our essential reality — Divinity. Baba declares that consciousness 
is the Lord and, in reality, God alone exists.