274 MY BABA AND I
Baba likens consciousness to an electric current, a phenomenon 
within the knowledge of almost everyone. The diverse expressions 
of electricity multiply year by year as technology advances, but it 
is all one aspect of energy — electricity. The ignorance of which 
Baba speaks arises because in life we see the diversity, the duality, 
but fail to appreciate the unity. With simple instruction and simple 
experiments, our ignorance about electricity is easily lifted and 
done away with. But it is not so easy for us to see that a person of 
ugly behavior, the worm found in freshly turned earth, our beloved 
Baba, and the countless thousands or millions of universes in space 
are all part of the one omnipresent consciousness. And it is, 
perhaps, even more difficult to see that we must be helped in order 
to be free of ignorance, even though no one but oneself is 
responsible for continued ignorance.
To understand how we may be helped to free ourselves of ig-
norance, it is best to take a simple, but true, example. A simple ex-
ample, evident to all of us, is the ocean and the shore. Ocean is 
commonly understood as the vast body of water which surrounds 
the continents. The ocean is one vast ocean. The names, Atlantic 
Ocean and Pacific Ocean, do not alter the fact that it is one vast 
ocean. This we know. We learn it in school and later on directly 
experience the fact as we travel about the world. Yet, at the shore 
we see separate waves and so name them. We see separate foam 
and bubbles, and so name them, when the wave rises to a crest and 
breaks upon the shore. We actually see these phenomena, and the 
phenomena are real and tangible when we venture into the waves, 
foam, and bubbles. We know that waves, foam, and bubbles are 
just ocean, but we see and experience wave, foam, and bubbles and 
we respond to the experience in that context. A child, fascinated 
with the bubbles may capture some in his hand and may say to his 
father, "I will take them home." Father smiles and explains that 
bubbles are transitory forms of ocean water which appear to be real 
but quickly die away. This perfectly obvious fact had never 
occurred to the child, but it was at once understood when pointed 
out by his father, who had a correct understanding of both the ap-
parent duality and the underlying unity. In this case, father was the 
guru. That which calls our attention to truth is the guru. Unless 
something occurs to remind us of ignored truth, we would remain 
as we are; we would continue to engage in actions arising from