TO SUM IT UP 275
false notions and suffer the painful consequences again and again, 
ad infinitum. That this unhappy situation can exist is widely un-
derstood. The common statement is, "He who fails to understand 
history is bound to repeat it." Blessed is he who has been found by 
a true guru. To a devotee, the teachings of Baba is the enlighten-
ment lovingly offered by a true guru.
We perceive duality at the seashore. However, that perception of 
difference, of duality, is harmless because the phenomenon of 
duality arises and subsides so rapidly that our basic understanding 
of the ocean is not affected. But the great body of our experience is 
not so simple and direct. At the shore, the appearance of duality, 
— waves, foam, and bubbles — quickly and plainly subsides into 
the ever-present underlying unity of ocean; but in more complex 
experiences, the appearance of duality persists, and we do not see 
or understand the omnipresent unity of the omnipresent 
consciousness. Thus we disregard the unity, focus on the ap-
pearance as something unique and real in itself, and thus fall vic-
tim to wrong notions.
The experience of physical, emotional, and mental phenomena is 
indeed real in relation to the senses. But such phenomena is unreal; 
for that which appears and then disappears, dependent upon this or 
that, which neither lasts nor can be relied on, is as good as unreal. 
For this reason, the world is said to be neither real nor unreal. In the 
simple experience of the ocean and the shore, we clearly understand 
the duality of appearance, and we also understand the underlying 
unity of the ocean. The ocean is its waves and its bubbles, and the 
waves are not the ocean; for the ocean remains as the ocean even 
when bubbles and waves have lost their separate forms and no 
longer exist. But in the more complex experiences of our life, we 
do not clearly understand the duality of the world of appearances 
and of ourselves, nor clearly understand the unity of the underlying 
omnipresent consciousness, the Divine Principle. That Divine 
Principle — the omnipresent underlying consciousness — is 
oneself and is also everything else that can be imagined or 
perceived, just as the ocean is its visible waves and bubbles and 
also its invisible variations in temperature and currents. But neither 
the world nor oneself, this apparent duality, limits the Divine 
Principle, for the omnipresent consciousness remains as 
omnipresent consciousness even when I (as a person) have lost my