276 MY BABA AND I
separate form and no longer exist. In like fashion, we are told that if 
the entire creation were to subside, the Divine Principle would 
remain, without modification.
In the illustration of the ocean and the shore, the child understood 
that he could not take ocean bubbles home. He gained correct 
understanding when his father pointed to the truth of the situation. 
If the child willfully decided to ignore correct understanding and 
tried to carry the ocean bubbles home, no harm was done. But to 
apply such willfulness to more serious matters is to invite disaster. 
If, even though we have been fortunate to have been found by a 
true guru, we willfully disregard correct understanding; our actions 
will be based on wrong understanding, and we will continue to 
invite the misery and suffering which follows serious errors of 
judgment.
Sri Sathya Sai Baba tells us again and again in his discourses, 
writings, and conversations that God alone exists, and that He and 
we are not different. Baba points out in the clearest of terms that the 
duality of oneself and the world is an illusion; that duality is 
transitory appearance only, and that the entire creation of an in-
finite number of universes and an infinite number of beings of 
manifold types and forms resolve into the one Reality, God, the 
Omnipresent Consciousness, the Divine Principle. Baba has 
pointed out this truth to those whom he has found, which means —
those who will listen. Having listened and having reasoned out this 
truth in simple situations which we can easily comprehend, we are 
bound by our intelligence to no longer be unknowingly subject to 
illusion in respect to duality. The understanding of duality and 
unity means that no matter what we perceive, no matter how tangi-
ble or intangible it might appear to be, we penetrate it with our 
understanding and know that whatever we perceive is Divinity at its 
core, and that we ourselves are not truly different from what we 
perceive, from each other, from the world or from the Divine. The 
understanding of duality and unity will transform our lives if we do 
not allow a host of predetermined concepts to hold us as prisoners. 
From the day of our understanding we can surely know and feel the 
joyful presence of the Lord as the one reality everywhere, and be 
happy. Baba says to us always, "Be happy, be happy." He says that 
in ourselves the stream of happiness should be as constant as the 
stream of consciousness.