TO SUM IT UP 277
Realization of unity, realization that nothing is apart from 
omnipresent consciousness requires us to face a practical problem. 
This problem could be named "The problem of identity," or, "The 
problem of sanctuary."
Ordinarily, regardless of what one's intellectual or philosophical 
understanding may be, one considers his body to be himself. But 
when one's intelligence has come to understand and appreciate the 
omnipresent nature of consciousness, the burning question arises, "
Who and/or what am I?" In consciousness I am unity, but as an 
embodiment engaged in action, I am duality. Therefore one asks, "As 
long as I am in action and therefore subject to the swings of the 
opposites, where can I position my sense of being, of existing?"
One's native intelligence, once it is applied to the question, can 
quickly see that while "I" am everything, yet everything is not 
myself, for "I" continue unmodified regardless of what happens. For 
example, "I" am my body, which is the sum of its parts, but if an arm 
and a leg are destroyed, "I" continues undiminished even though my 
body is diminished by the loss of some parts. The alert intelligence 
can at once pursue this clue and quickly realize that one can take one'
s stand as a witness to all that happens at any level of consciousness 
and remain unaffected by all happenings.
At this level of purity, a guru will certainly appear. The guru may 
point out that if one wishes to realize the essence of his being and 
take his stand there, then the idea that the "witness state" is oneself 
is not substantially different from the idea that the "embodied 
state" is oneself even though having taken one's stand in the "
witness state" there is no longer identification with the miseries 
and pleasures which afflict the body. The guru may point out that 
all ideas can be relinquished, even the idea of self, and that in 
reality, one's essence is pure consciousness not limited by a center 
or a periphery or ideas of any sort whatsoever. If, when listening to 
the guru, all ideas give up the ghost, so to speak, and are 
destroyed, then the mind is totally void of movement, and "
Liberation" is said to be "achieved." The pilgrim is said to be no 
more. Long, long ago the pilgrim became the idea, "I am a spirit-
ual aspirant and I will take to the spiritual path." Now all ideas are 
extinguished and the pilgrim has ceased to be. Consciousness is 
merged in consciousness, and being-awareness-bliss-love is time-
less, ever-fresh, ever-fragrant Reality.