278 MY BABA AND I
In this way, understanding cannot but begin to deepen somewhat
when one takes that first step advised by Baba, "See the deficiencies
of objects." Now, when one has realized that unity and duality are
coincident in the experience of one's embodiment as a human
person, one is required by his native intelligence to engage in a
constant self-effort of self-inquiry.
The teachings of Baba as briefly described in the second section
of this book are all to be found in his discourses, essays and
conversations. The writer has simply reported on his study of
Baba for the past seventeen years. The writer views Baba as a
flame of love and bliss dancing in ecstasy against the background
of the apparent world and making himself accessible to all
devotees who yearn for enlightenment. Baba is viewed as
incarnate wisdom, as a particular embodiment of the omnipresent
consciousness without the shadow of particularity — fully aware
of himself as you, as me, and as the total of creation. The writer's
viewpoint reflects his experiences with Baba over the years, and
he fully acknowledges his human capacity to misinterpret
experience. The foregoing is the bias of mind which the writer
spoke of in the chapter "From Age 16" and which the reader is
entitled to know as he or she works through the pages of this
book. The writer has implicit faith in Baba and in his motives and,
in the company of thousand of fellow devotees, he applies Baba's
teachings to daily life as best he can
Almost every teaching of Baba's can be found, couched in different
words and phrases, in the course of a diligent study of the several
great spiritual and religious traditions of mankind. Such studies have
been published and are available in libraries and from publishers.
What is unique about the Avathar, Sri Sathya Sai Baba, is that Baba
is alive, vigorous, able to be seen and listened to and competent to
put into words the truth about man, God, and the world — all of
which he directly observes as he speaks. We attend the Avathar not
for more information, but for an actual experience of our essential
truth. Undistorted truth is Baba's nature: he is that truth — that is,
the Divine. The significance of this for us is beyond and superior to
all calculations, for it brings into our life an infinitely powerful
potential. That potential is the removal of the illusion of our
separateness from the Divine by experiencing our direct connection
with the Divinity of the sentient, alive-in-