TO SUM IT UP 279
this-world Sri Sathya Sai Baba. He tells us that Salvation, 
abidance in the actuality of our Divine Reality, is here, as close to 
us as self is to Self. He tells us that the Avathar is with us, incar-
nate, for the very purpose of our Salvation, our Liberation, our 
Enlightenment. How different is this from the books we consult 
and the lectures we hear; how different from these is the love of 
the incarnate Divinity for His children.
The Avathar, Sri Sathya Sai Baba, whose actual beingness is 
Truth Absolute, tells us that the direct pathway to God-
Realization, to the realization of our Self, is love; that He is love 
and that love unites us with Him. He tells us to let love come first, 
and the direct realization of our Truth will inevitably follow.
How to open one's mind and heart to love for God, to devotion to 
Him, to the liberating truth of Divinity now, in this very lifetime, is 
set forth in Baba's teachings to be followed up by practice and by 
visiting Prasanthi Nilayam so as to place oneself in the direct 
physical presence of the Avathar. For most of us, Baba as our Divine 
Charioteer becomes meaningful when we have had the joyful 
experience of his physical presence.
For me, a pilgrim on the spiritual path who yearns to break free 
from illusion and delusion, Baba is the key to freedom. I have total 
confidence that what he says is the truth. What Baba teaches I put 
into daily preactice, and what he says does happen. For instance, 
while I still remain a standard, "general issue" western man, yet my 
dominant aggressive and hostile tendencies have fallen away 
without my struggling to change them. Baba informs us that bad 
characteristics cannot survive in the presence of the sacred name of 
that embodiment of Divinity dearest to one's heart. He tells us that 
when the sacred name is said with devotion to the supreme value, 
Divinity, even the powerful ego of voracious individuality will 
retreat from its throne as the ruler of one's life. Often, as I go about 
the day, I feel that the Hislop person, to whom I refer as "me," is 
like the insubstantial shadow which accompanies the real body as 
one walks on a sunny day. In his teachings, Baba declares it will 
work out best for us if we feel that God is the Reality and that one 
is but an instrument used by God to carry out His design. Our 
reason can accept this, for there is no way it can be challenged by 
the limited mind with which we have day-to-day familiarity. If the 
position strikes us as being reasonable,